and harm to third parties.[30][31] Advantages This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (February 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this message) Choice of tax regime. An LLC can elect to be taxed as a sole proprietor, partnership, S corporation or C corporation (as long as they would otherwise qualify for such tax treatment), providing for a great deal of flexibility. A limited liability company with multiple members that elects to be taxed as partnership may specially allocate the members' distributive share of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit via the company operating agreement on a basis other than the ownership percentage of each member.[a] S corporations may not specially allocate profits, losses and other tax items under US tax law. The owners of the LLC, called members, are protected from some or all liability for acts and debts of the LLC, depending on state shield laws. In the United States, an S corporation is limited to 100 shareholders,[b] and all of them must be U.S. tax residents.[c] An LLC may have an unlimited number of members, and there is no citizenship restriction. Much less administrative paperwork and record-keeping than a corporation. Pass-through taxation (i.e., no double taxation), unless the LLC elects to be taxed as a C corporation. Using default tax classification, profits are taxed personally at the member level, not at the LLC level. LLCs in most states are treated as entities separate from their members. However, in some jurisdictions such as Connecticut, case law has determined that owners were not required to plead facts sufficient to pierce the corporate veil and LLC members can be personally liable for operation of the LLC) (see, for example, the case of Sturm v. Harb Development[40] LLCs in some states can be set up with just one natural person involved. Less risk of being "stolen" by fire-sale acquisitions (more