designate a company that provides registered agent services. This will come at a fee, of course; pricing for registered agents may cost more than a hundred dollars per year. Should I Be My Own Registered Agent? You can legally act as your registered agent in every state. However, the availability of this option doesn’t automatically make it suitable for everyone. If you decide to act as your LLC’s registered agent, you should know that your name and address will soon become a matter of public record. You must receive and handle crucial legal documents or notices as your LLC’s registered agent. If you are not as knowledgeable about local laws and believe you would struggle to manage this type of paperwork, acting as your own agent may not be best, even if the goal is to save money. Carefully consider your options and perhaps even consult with a lawyer or professional agency before becoming your LLC’s registered agent. Get a Copy of Your State’s LLC Articles of Organization Form To establish your LLC as a legal entity, you’ll file a document with the state agency that handles business filings in your state. In most states, this document is called the articles of organization, but some states use a different name, such as a certificate of formation. Each state has a form you can use. To find your state’s form, go to the same website you used for business name research. Prepare the LLC Articles of Organization Form Each state lists its specific requirements and procedures for those trying to form an LLC. Basic information you’ll need to provide includes: Your business name The address of your principal place of business The purpose of the business The way your LLC will be managed Contact information for the registered agent (and in some states, the agent’s signature) The duration of the LLC Once these steps are complete, one or more business owners or organizers will need to sign the form. Some states, such as Nebraska and New York, require you to publish a notice in the newspaper indicating your desire to register