need to buy business licenses or permits for your LLC. Moreover, when determining the cost of an LLC, it is vital to consider factors beyond the basic paperwork to form the business. That includes annual obligations such as registered agent fees and annual reports. LLC vs. Other Business Types Many entrepreneurs and aspiring business owners choose to form an LLC because it is among the most cost-effective and streamlined ways to get your company off the ground. Yet, several other business types may be worth considering. Each option has its advantages and setbacks but may be worth considering. Sole Proprietorship A sole proprietorship is the most simple method of business operation. In this case, an individual engages in business without establishing a formal organization. You may act as a sole proprietor under your name or a pseudonym; if the latter, you would need to submit “doing business as” or DBA paperwork to the state, county and sometimes municipal government. The owner of a sole proprietorship reports business income and earnings on their personal tax returns. Be prepared to pay a self-employment tax, which as of 2023 is 15.3%. Unlike LLCs, sole proprietors take on all risks and have no liability protection. They also lack the flexibility to choose between operating as a pass-through business entity or as a corporation. A sole proprietorship may be a good starting point for an individual, but they might later consider creating a single-member LLC. Partnership A partnership is a business model established when two or more people join together to establish a for-profit company. You may choose to establish three types of partnerships: a general partnership, limited partnership or a limited liability partnership. In a general partnership, everyone has complete control and equally unlimited liability. This differs from a limited partnership, where one member assumes complete control of the day-to-day operations and others have limited control and liability. With an LLP, all partners have limited liability. As