or which may serve as additional requirements for running your business. Obtain Business Licenses and Permits In addition to documents for establishing your LLC, you likely need to complete forms and submit fees related to business licenses and permits. This information is likely available from the same office or on the official website as part of the list of business forms and fee schedules. Confirm the types of licenses and fees your business needs to operate legally within your state. Be mindful of important deadlines, as you will likely have to apply to renew your license or permit periodically. Failing to meet renewal requirements could cause your LLC to lose its status as a legally recognized business. Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) Obtaining an EIN is crucial for anyone seeking to start an LLC. First, it is an important means of separating your business entity and assets from your own finances. Additionally, banks often require an EIN when opening a business account for your LLC. Moreover, for some businesses, an EIN is mandatory. You should get your EIN as soon as you set up your new company. Divide Business and Personal Assets As mentioned, specific actions help separate your private assets from those linked to your business. Having an EIN and getting a business bank account are two common ways to begin this process. One related concern among LLC owners and members is how to pay themselves. Typically, this entails withdrawals from the business account associated with your LLC. Such a withdrawal would have to be labeled an “owner’s draw.” It allows you to treat yourself as an employee paid by the business, avoiding the issues raised by spending company money for private use. Register Your Business in Other States You may register your business in as many different states as you want. Additionally, the state where you choose to establish your domestic or in-state entity can be somewhere other than where you live. You can set up your foreign or out-of-state entity if you have a registered agent