What Is an LLC? An LLC, is a type of legal entity that U.S. business owners can select for the operation of their enterprise. Creating an LLC protects an individual’s or group’s personal assets in case of legal trouble or bankruptcy. It also allows for flexible taxation options, as not all businesses operate in the same way. Some may elect for taxation as a sole proprietorship, but others may be taxed as a corporation. Consult a tax advisor to determine the best option for your LLC. How To Set Up an LLC Use this seven-step guide to start an LLC today. Note that there are differences in laws and processes from state to state. Browse our state LLC formation guides for information specific to your state. Decide on a Business Name Marketing may be at the top of your mind as you consider names for your business. And while it’s important to choose the right name for branding purposes, your business name must also meet state law requirements. In general, state laws won’t allow you to choose a business name that’s already being used by another business in your state. Most states also prohibit certain words that might imply you’re in a certain business, such as insurance or banking. You’ll probably need to include some version of “LLC” or “limited liability company” at the end of your business name. You can review your state’s LLC naming requirements and find out if the name you want is available by visiting the website of the state agency responsible for business filings (usually the Secretary of State) and doing a name search. Designate a Registered Agent Every state requires LLCs to have a registered agent. A registered agent is someone who receives official or legal documents (such as subpoenas) on behalf of the LLC. Once received, the registered agent then passes on these documents to the LLC. Anyone who is at least 18 years old can be a registered agent—and you’re allowed to name yourself or an employee. However, the agent must be available at an address within your state during normal business hours. You can also