your LLC. This step must be completed before filing the articles of organization. File the Articles of Organization Check your articles of organization carefully before submitting them to your state. You’ll also need to pay a filing fee, which varies depending on the state where you’re forming your business. When your formation documents are approved, you’ll be issued a certificate by the state to indicate your LLC is formally registered. Use it for other necessary tasks such as setting up a business bank account and getting a tax ID number. Create an Operating Agreement An operating agreement contains the details of the financial, legal and management rights of all members of the LLC. More specifically, it can include how profits will be distributed, how members leave the LLC and who contributes capital for the business. In essence, it should contain all relevant information pertaining to the operations of your LLC. Many states don’t require an operating agreement, but that doesn’t mean you don’t need to craft one. LLCs with more than one member or partner will want to create one to ensure everyone agrees on their rights and responsibilities. Even solo business owners benefit from outlining the details in writing. Crafting your own operating agreement is one option, especially for single-member LLCs. And there are plenty of free templates online to get you started. For more complex situations such as LLCs with multiple owners, hiring an experienced attorney may be well worth the expense. Keep Your LLC Active Setting up your LLC is only the start. Once it’s formed, you’ll need to ensure your business remains in good standing with your state. Again, refer to your state’s business filing website for current information on how to do so. You may need to file an annual report that updates information pertaining to your LLC and pay an annual filing fee. Other Important Tasks When Creating an LLC Alongside knowing how to start an LLC, there are a few key details to handle that contribute to the success of the new entity