
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Photographs of missing children selected
by the Center may appear in this publication on
pages that would otherwise be blank. You can
help bring these children home by looking at the
photographs and calling 1-800-THE-LOST
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.
Introduction
This publication provides federal income, employment, and excise tax information for limited
liability companies. This publication doesn't address state law governing the formation, operation, or termination of limited liability companies.
This publication doesn't address any state
taxes.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and your
suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or, you can write to:
Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526,
Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments as
we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. We can’t answer tax questions sent to
the above address.
Tax questions. If you have a tax question
not answered by this publication or How To Get
Tax Help section at the end of this publication,
go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at
IRS.gov/Help/ITA where you can find topics using the search feature or by viewing the categories listed.
Department
of the
Treasury
Internal
Revenue
Service
Publication 3402
(Rev. March 2020)
Cat. No. 27940D
Taxation of
Limited Liability
Companies
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (TiếngViệt)
Mar 08, 2020
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Visit IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.
Ordering forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676
to order prior-year forms and instructions. Your
order should arrive within 10 business days.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
15 (Circular E), Employer's Tax Guide
334 Tax Guide for Small Business
505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
535 Business Expenses
541 Partnerships
542 Corporations
544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
583 Starting a Business and Keeping
Records
925 Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules
Form (and Instructions)
1065 U.S. Return of Partnership Income
1120 U.S. Corporation Income Tax
Return
1120-S U.S. Income Tax Return for an S
Corporation
2553 Election by a Small Business
Corporation
8832 Entity Classification Election
See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this
publication for information about getting publications and forms.
What Is a Limited
Liability Company?
For purposes of this publication, a limited liability company (LLC) is a business entity organized in the United States under state law. An
LLC may be classified for federal income tax
purposes as a partnership, corporation, or an
entity disregarded as separate from its owner
by applying the rules in Regulations section
301.7701-3.
The information in this publication applies to
LLCs in general, and different rules may apply
to special situations, including banks, insurance
companies, or nonprofit organizations that are
LLCs or that own LLCs. Check your state's requirements and the federal tax regulations for
further information.
Classification of an LLC
Default classification. An LLC with at least
two members is classified as a partnership for
 15
 334
 505
 535
 541
 542
 544
 583
 925
 1065
 1120
 1120-S
 2553
 8832
federal income tax purposes. An LLC with only
one member is treated as an entity that is disregarded as separate from its owner for income
tax purposes (but as a separate entity for purposes of employment tax and certain excise
taxes). Also, an LLC's federal tax classification
can subsequently change under certain default
rules discussed later.
Elected classification. An LLC can elect to be
classified as an association taxable as a corporation or as an S corporation. After an LLC has
determined its federal tax classification, it can
later elect to change that classification. For details, see Subsequent Elections, later.
LLCs Classified as
Partnerships
If an LLC has at least two members and is classified as a partnership, it generally must file
Form 1065, U.S. Return of Partnership Income.
Generally, an LLC classified as a partnership is
subject to the same filing and reporting requirements as partnerships. See the Instructions for
Form 1065.
Change in default classification. If the number of members in an LLC classified as a partnership is reduced to only one member, it becomes an entity disregarded as separate from
its owner under Regulations section
301.7701-3(f)(2). However, if the LLC has
made an election to be classified as a corporation (discussed later) and that elective classification is in effect at the time of the change in
membership, the default classification as a disregarded entity will not apply.
Other tax consequences of a change in
membership, such as recognition of gain or
loss, are determined by the transactions
through which an interest in the LLC is acquired
or disposed of. If a partnership that becomes a
disregarded entity as a result of a decrease in
the number of members makes an election to
be classified as a corporation, the applicable
deemed transactions discussed under Subsequent Elections, later, apply.
Example 1. Ethel and Francis are members of an LLC classified as a partnership for
federal tax purposes. Each holds an equal
membership interest. The LLC doesn't hold any
unrealized receivables or substantially appreciated inventory. Ethel sells her entire interest in
the LLC to Francis for $10,000. After the sale,
the business is continued by the LLC, which is
owned solely by Francis. No entity classification
election is made after the sale to treat the LLC
as a corporation for federal tax purposes. The
partnership terminates when Francis buys
Ethel's entire interest. Ethel must treat the transaction as the sale of a partnership interest and
must report gain or loss, if any, resulting from
the sale of her partnership interest.
For purposes of determining the tax treatment of Francis, the partnership is deemed to
make a liquidating distribution of all of its assets
to Ethel and Francis, and after this distribution,
Francis is treated as acquiring the assets
deemed to have been distributed to Ethel in liquidation of Ethel's partnership interest. Francis'
basis in the assets attributable to Ethel's
one-half interest in the partnership is $10,000,
the purchase price for Ethel's partnership interest. Upon the termination of the partnership,
Francis is considered to receive a distribution of
those assets attributable to Francis' former interest in the partnership. Francis must recognize gain or loss, if any, on the deemed distribution of the assets to the extent required by
section 731(a). See Partnership Distributions in
Pub. 541.
Example 2. George and Henrietta are
members of an LLC classified as a partnership
for federal tax purposes. Each holds an equal
membership interest. The LLC doesn't hold any
unrealized receivables or substantially appreciated inventory. George and Henrietta each sell
their entire interests in the LLC to Ian, an unrelated person, in exchange for $10,000. After the
sale, the business is continued by the LLC,
which is owned solely by Ian. No entity classification election is made after the sale to treat the
LLC as a corporation for federal tax purposes.
The partnership terminates when Ian purchases
the entire interests of George and Henrietta in
the LLC. George and Henrietta must report gain
or loss, if any, resulting from the sale of their
partnership interests. For purposes of classifying the acquisition by Ian, the partnership is
deemed to make a liquidating distribution of its
assets to George and Henrietta. Immediately
following this distribution, Ian is deemed to acquire, by purchase, all of the former partnership's assets.
For more details see Rev. Rul. 99-6 and
section 708.
LLCs Classified as
Disregarded Entities
Income tax. If an LLC has only one member
and is classified as an entity disregarded as
separate from its owner, its income, deductions,
gains, losses, and credits are reported on the
owner's income tax return. For example, if the
owner of the LLC is an individual, the LLC's income and expenses would be reported on the
following schedules filed with the owner's Form
1040:
• Schedule C, Profit or Loss from Business
(Sole Proprietorship);
• Schedule E, Supplemental Income and
Loss; or
• Schedule F, Profit or Loss From Farming.
Note. The LLC should not file an income
tax return.
Employment tax and certain excise taxes.
A single-member LLC disregarded for income
tax purposes is considered a corporation for
employment tax and collection of income tax at
source and certain excise tax purposes and
must use its own name and identification number for those purposes.
See the employment and excise tax returns
and instructions, including the following, for
more information.
• Form 637, Application for Registration (For
Certain Excise Tax Activities)
Page 2 Publication 3402 (March 2020)
• Form 720, Quarterly Federal Excise Tax
Return
• Form 730, Monthly Tax Return for Wagers
(Section 4401 of the Internal Revenue
Code)
• Form 2290, Heavy Highway Vehicle Use
Tax Return
• Form 11–C, Occupational Tax and Registration Return for Wagering
• Form 8849, Claim for Refund of Excise
Taxes
• Form 941, Employer’s Quarterly Federal
Tax Return
For the purposes of determining certain exceptions from employment tax because of the
familial relationship or religious affiliation of the
employer and employee, the owner of the LLC
is considered the employer. Additionally, the
owner of the entity is subject to the withholding
requirements imposed by section 3406 (backup
withholding).
Self-employment tax. Generally an individual
owner of a single-member LLC classified as a
disregarded entity isn't an employee of the LLC.
Instead, the owner is subject to tax on the net
earnings from self-employment of the LLC
which is treated in the same manner as a sole
proprietorship. Similarly, a partner in a partnership that is the owner of a single-member LLC
classified as a disregarded entity is not an employee of the LLC. Instead, the partner is subject to the same self-employment tax rules as a
partner of a partnership that does not own a disregarded entity.
Example 3. LLC is a disregarded entity
owned by Irene. LLC has three employees
(Kent, Patricia, and Tex) and pays wages. LLC
is treated as an entity separate from its owner
for purposes of employment taxes. For the wages paid to Kent, Patricia, and Tex, LLC is liable
for income tax withholding, Federal Insurance
Contributions Act (FICA) taxes, and Federal
Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) taxes. In addition, LLC must file under its name and EIN the
applicable employment tax returns; make timely
employment tax deposits; and file with the Social Security Administration and furnish to LLC's
employees (Kent, Patricia, and Tex) Forms
W-2, Wage and Tax Statement. Irene is
self-employed for purposes of the self-employment tax. Thus, Irene is subject to self-employment tax on her net earnings from self-employment with respect to LLC's activities. Irene isn't
an employee of LLC for purposes of employment taxes. Because LLC is treated as a sole
proprietorship of Irene for income tax purposes,
Irene must report the income and expenses
from LLC on her Schedule C. Irene can also figure her self-employment tax and any deduction
for self-employment tax on Schedule SE (Form
1040 or 1040-SR).
Taxpayer identification number. For all income tax purposes, a single-member LLC classified as a disregarded entity must use the owner's social security number (SSN) or EIN. This
includes all information returns and reporting related to income tax. For example, if a disregarded entity LLC that is owned by an individual is
required to provide a Form W-9, Request for
Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification, the LLC must provide the owner's SSN or
EIN, not the LLC's EIN.
However, most new single-member LLCs
classified as a disregarded entity will need to
obtain an EIN for the LLC. An LLC will need an
EIN if it has any employees or if it will be required to file any of the excise tax forms listed
above (see Employment tax and certain excise
taxes earlier). See Form SS-4, Application for
Employer Identification Number, for information
on applying for an EIN.
Change in default classification. If a single-member LLC classified as a disregarded
entity for income tax purposes acquires an additional member, it becomes a partnership under Regulations section 301.7701-3(f)(2). However, if the LLC has made an election to be
classified as a corporation (discussed later) and
that elective classification is in effect at the time
of the change in membership, the default classification as a partnership will not apply.
Other tax consequences of a change in
membership, such as recognition of gain or
loss, are determined by the transactions
through which an interest in the LLC is acquired
or disposed of. If a disregarded entity that becomes a partnership as a result of an increase
in the number of members makes an election to
be classified as a corporation, the applicable
deemed transactions discussed in Subsequent
Elections, later, apply.
Example 4. Bart, who isn't related to Alain,
buys 50% of Alain's interest in an LLC that is a
disregarded entity for $5,000. Alain doesn't
contribute any portion of the $5,000 to the LLC.
Alain and Bart continue to operate the business
of the LLC as co-owners of the LLC. The LLC is
converted to a partnership when the new member, Bart, buys an interest in the disregarded
entity from the owner, Alain. Bart's buying a
50% interest in Alain's ownership interest in the
LLC is treated as Bart's buying a 50% interest in
each of the LLC's assets, which are treated as
owned directly by Alain for federal income tax
purposes. Immediately thereafter, Alain and
Bart are treated as contributing their respective
interests in those assets to a partnership in exchange for ownership interests in the partnership. Alain recognizes gain or loss from the
deemed sale to Bart of the 50% interest in the
assets. Neither Alain nor Bart recognizes any
gain or loss as a result of the deemed contribution of the assets to the partnership.
Example 5. Charles, who isn't related to
Danielle, contributes $10,000 to an LLC owned
by Danielle for a 50% ownership interest in the
LLC. The LLC uses all of the contributed cash
in its business. Charles and Danielle continue to
operate the business of the LLC as co-owners
of the LLC. The LLC is converted from a disregarded entity to a partnership when Charles
contributes cash to the LLC. Charles' contribution is treated as a contribution to a partnership
in exchange for an ownership interest in the
partnership. Danielle is treated as contributing
all of the assets of the LLC to the partnership in
exchange for a partnership interest. Neither
Charles nor Danielle recognizes gain or loss as
a result of the conversion of the disregarded entity to a partnership.
For more details on the preceding two examples, see Revenue Ruling 99-5, 1999-6
I.R.B. 8. You can find Revenue Ruling 99-5 at
IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb99-06.pdf.
LLCs Classified as
Corporations
An LLC with either a single member or more
than one member can elect to be classified as a
corporation rather than be classified as a partnership or disregarded entity under the default
rules discussed earlier. File Form 8832 to elect
classification as a C corporation. File Form
2553 to elect classification as an S corporation.
An LLC electing classification as an S corporation isn't required to file Form 8832 to elect classification as a corporation before filing Form
2553. By filing Form 2553, an LLC is deemed to
have elected classification as a corporation in
addition to the S corporation classification.
If the LLC elects to be classified as a
corporation by filing Form 8832, a copy
of the LLC's Form 8832 must be attached to the federal income tax return of each
direct and indirect owner of the LLC for the tax
year of the owner that includes the date on
which the election took effect.
Example 6. Classification as a corporation without an S election. Wanda and Sylvester are members of an LLC. They agree that
the LLC should be classified as a corporation
but don't want to elect to have the LLC be treated as an S corporation. The LLC must file Form
8832.
Example 7. Classification as a corporation with an S election. Evelyn and Carol are
members of an LLC. They agree that the LLC
should be classified as an S corporation. The
LLC must file Form 2553 instead of Form 8832.
If the LLC is classified as a corporation, it
must file a corporation income tax return. If it is
a C corporation, it is taxed on its taxable income
and distributions to the members are includible
in the members' gross income to the extent of
the corporation's earnings and profits (double
taxation). If it is an S corporation, the corporation is generally not subject to any income tax
and the income, deductions, gains, losses, and
credits of the corporation “pass through” to the
members.
Corporations generally file either:
• Form 1120; or
• Form 1120-S.
For more information on the income taxation
of corporations and their shareholders, see
Pub. 542. For more information on the income
taxation of S corporations and their shareholders, see the Instructions for Form 1120-S.
Subsequent Elections
An LLC can elect to change its classification.
Generally, once an LLC has elected to change
its classification, it can't elect again to change
its classification during the 60 months after the
CAUTION
!
Publication 3402 (March 2020) Page 3
effective date of the election. An election by a
newly formed LLC that is effective on the date
of formation isn't considered a change for purposes of this limitation. For more information
and exceptions, see Regulations section
301.7701-3(c) and the Form 8832 instructions.
An election to change classification can
have significant tax consequences based on
the following transactions that are deemed to
occur as a result of the election.
Partnership to corporation. An election to
change classification from a partnership to a
corporation will be treated as if the partnership
contributed all of its assets and liabilities to the
corporation in exchange for stock and the partnership then immediately liquidated by distributing the stock to its partners.
For more information, see Partnership Distributions in Pub. 541 and Property Exchanged for
Stock in Pub. 542.
Corporation to partnership. An election to
change classification from a corporation to a
partnership will be treated as if the corporation
distributed all of its assets and liabilities to its
shareholders in liquidation and the shareholders then immediately contributed all of the distributed assets and liabilities to a new partnership.
For more information, see Contribution of
Property in Pub. 541 and Distributions to Shareholders in Pub. 542.
Corporation to disregarded entity. An election to change classification from a corporation
to a disregarded entity will be treated as if the
corporation distributed all of its assets and liabilities to its single owner in liquidation.
For more information, see Distributions to
Shareholders in Pub. 542.
Disregarded entity to corporation. An election to change classification from a disregarded
entity to a corporation will be treated as if the
owner of the disregarded entity contributed all
of the assets and liabilities to the corporation in
exchange for stock.
For more information, see Property Exchanged for Stock in Pub. 542.
Community Property
A married couple may choose to treat a business entity as a partnership or as a disregarded
entity if:
1. The business entity is wholly owned by the
couple as community property under the
laws of a state, a foreign country, or possession of the United States;
2. No person other than one or both spouses
would be considered an owner for federal
tax purposes; and
3. The business entity isn't treated as a corporation under Regulations section
301.7701–2.
A change in reporting position will be treated
as a conversion of the entity.
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue, need
help preparing your tax return, or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov and find resources that can help you
right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving your wage and earning statements
(Form W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC) from
all employers and interest and dividend statements from banks (Forms 1099), you can find
free options to prepare and file your return on
IRS.gov or in your local community if you qualify.
The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance
(VITA) program offers free tax help to people
with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with
disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help preparing their own tax
returns. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who are 60 years of
age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
You can go to IRS.gov to see your options
for preparing and filing your return, which include the following.
• Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if
you qualify to use brand-name software to
prepare and e-file your federal tax return
for free.
• VITA. Go to IRS.gov/VITA, download the
free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887 to
find the nearest VITA location for free tax
return preparation.
• TCE. Go to IRS.gov/TCE, download the
free IRS2Go app, or call 888-227-7669 to
find the nearest TCE location for free tax
return preparation.
Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The SSA offers online service for fast, free, and secure online W-2 filing
options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process W-2s (Wage and
Tax Statement) and W-2Cs (Statement of Corrected Income and Tax Amounts). Employers
can go to SSA.gov/employer for more information.
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, get answers to your
tax questions anytime, anywhere.
• Go to IRS.gov/Help for a variety of tools
that will help you get answers to some of
the most common tax questions.
• Go to IRS.gov/ITA for the Interactive Tax
Assistant, a tool that will ask you questions
on a number of tax law topics and provide
answers. You can print the entire interview
and the final response for your records.
• Go to IRS.gov/Forms to search for our
forms, instructions, and publications. You
will find details on 2019 tax changes and
hundreds of interactive links to help you
find answers to your questions.
• You may also be able to access tax law information in your electronic filing software.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation affects individuals, businesses, and tax-exempt and government entities. Go to IRS.gov/TaxReform for
information and updates on how this legislation
affects your taxes.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
paramount. We use these tools to share public
information with you. Don’t post your social security number or other confidential information
on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Watching IRS videos. The IRS Video portal
(IRSVideos.gov) contains video and audio presentations for individuals, small businesses,
and tax professionals.
Getting tax information in other languages.
For taxpayers whose native language isn’t English, we have the following resources available.
Taxpayers can find information on IRS.gov in
the following languages.
• Spanish (IRS.gov/Spanish).
• Chinese (IRS.gov/Chinese).
• Korean (IRS.gov/Korean).
• Russian (IRS.gov/Russian).
• Vietnamese (IRS.gov/Vietnamese).
The IRS Taxpayer Assistance Centers
(TACs) provide over-the-phone interpreter service in over 170 languages, and the service is
available free to taxpayers.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all of
the forms, instructions, and publications you
may need. You can also download and view
popular tax publications and instructions (including the 1040 and 1040-SR instructions) on
mobile devices as an eBook at no charge at
IRS.gov/eBooks. Or you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order and have them
mailed to you within 10 business days.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe, pay online, or
set up an online payment agreement.
• Access your tax records online.
• Review the past 24 months of your payment history.
• Go to IRS.gov/SecureAccess to review the
required identity authentication process.
Using direct deposit. The fastest way to receive a tax refund is to combine direct deposit
and IRS e-file. Direct deposit securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
Page 4 Publication 3402 (March 2020)
financial account. Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refund. The IRS issues more than 90% of refunds in less than 21
days.
Getting a transcript or copy of a return. The
quickest way to get a copy of your tax transcript
is to go to IRS.gov/Transcripts. Click on either
“Get Transcript Online” or “Get Transcript by
Mail” to order a copy of your transcript. If you
prefer, you can order your transcript by calling
800-908-9946.
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the EIC.
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4app) makes it easier for everyone to
pay the correct amount of tax during the
year. The Estimator replaces the Withholding Calculator. The redesigned tool is a
convenient, online way to check and tailor
your withholding. It’s more user-friendly for
taxpayers, including retirees and self-employed individuals. The new and improved
features include the following.
– Easy to understand language;
– The ability to switch between screens,
correct previous entries, and skip
screens that don’t apply;
– Tips and links to help you determine if
you qualify for tax credits and deductions;
– A progress tracker;
– A self-employment tax feature; and
– Automatic calculation of taxable social
security benefits.
• The First Time Homebuyer Credit Account
Look-up (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on your repayments and
account balance.
• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040 or 1040-SR),
choose not to claim state and local income
taxes, and you didn’t save your receipts
showing the sales tax you paid.
Resolving tax-related identity theft issues.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by email or telephone to request
personal or financial information. This includes any type of electronic communication, such as text messages and social media channels.
• Go to IRS.gov/IDProtection for information.
• If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you
suspect you’re a victim of tax-related identity theft, visit IRS.gov/IdentityTheft to learn
what steps you should take.
Checking on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February 2020 for returns that claimed
the EIC or the ACTC. This applies to the
entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
Making a tax payment. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to ensure your electronic payments are safe and secure. You can
make electronic payments online, by phone,
and from a mobile device using the IRS2Go
app. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money order.
Go to IRS.gov/Payments to make a payment
using any of the following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill
or estimated tax payment directly from
your checking or savings account at no
cost to you.
• Debit or Credit Card: Choose an approved
payment processor to pay online, by
phone, and by mobile device.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Offered only
when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax
professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
Best option for businesses. Enrollment is
required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do
same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and cut-off times.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Checking the status of an amended return.
Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of
Form 1040-X amended returns. Please note
that it can take up to 3 weeks from the date you
mailed your amended return for it to show up in
our system, and processing it can take up to 16
weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter. Go to
IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information
about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
Contacting your local IRS office. Keep in
mind, many questions can be answered on
IRS.gov without visiting an IRS Tax Assistance
Center (TAC). Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the
topics people ask about most. If you still need
help, IRS TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All
TACs now provide service by appointment so
you’ll know in advance that you can get the
service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find
the nearest TAC, check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab,
choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You
What Is TAS?
TAS is an independent organization within the
IRS that helps taxpayers and protects taxpayer
rights. Their job is to ensure that every taxpayer
is treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of
Rights.
How Can You Learn About Your
Taxpayer Rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes 10 basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
the IRS. Go to TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov to
help you understand what these rights mean to
you and how they apply. These are your rights.
Know them. Use them.
What Can TAS Do For You?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you
can’t resolve with the IRS. And their service is
free. If you qualify for their assistance, you will
be assigned to one advocate who will work with
you throughout the process and will do everything possible to resolve your issue. TAS can
help you if:
• Your problem is causing financial difficulty
for you, your family, or your business;
• You face (or your business is facing) an
immediate threat of adverse action; or
• You’ve tried repeatedly to contact the IRS
but no one has responded, or the IRS
hasn’t responded by the date promised.
How Can You Reach TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Your local advocate’s number is in your local directory and at
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us. You
can also call them at 877-777-4778.
How Else Does TAS Help
Taxpayers?
TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that
affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of
these broad issues, please report it to them at
IRS.gov/SAMS.
TAS also has a website, Tax Reform
Changes, which shows you how the new tax
law may change your future tax filings and helps
you plan for these changes. The information is
categorized by tax topic in the order of the IRS
Form 1040 or 1040-SR. Go to TaxChanges.us
for more information.
Publication 3402 (March 2020) Page 5
TAS for Tax Professionals
TAS can provide a variety of information for tax
professionals, including tax law updates and
guidance, TAS programs, and ways to let TAS
know about systemic problems you’ve seen in
your practice.
Low Income Taxpayer
Clinics (LITCs)
LITCs are independent from the IRS. LITCs
represent individuals whose income is below a
certain level and need to resolve tax problems
with the IRS, such as audits, appeals, and tax
collection disputes. In addition, clinics can provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for individuals who speak English as a second language.
Services are offered for free or a small fee. To
find a clinic near you, visit IRS.gov/LITC or see
IRS Pub. 4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic
List.
Page 6 Publication 3402 (March 2020)
To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us. Index
A
Assistance (See Tax help)
C
Change in classification:
Disregarded entity to
corporation 3
Disregarded entity to
partnership 3
Partnership to corporation 3
Partnership to disregarded
entity 2, 3
Recognition of gain or loss 2, 3
Classification as a corporation 3
Classification as a disregarded
entity 2
Classification as a partnership 2
Classification election 3
Classification of an LLC:
Default classification 2
Elected classification 2
E
Employer identification
number (See Taxpayer
identification number)
Employment tax 2
Excise taxes 2
I
Identity theft 5
P
Publications (See Tax help)
S
Self-employment tax 3
Social security
number (See Taxpayer
identification number)
Subchapter S election 3
T
Tax help 4
Taxpayer identification
number 3
Publication 3402 (March 2020) Page 7



Contents
Reminder .................... 1
Introduction .................. 2
Forming a Partnership ............ 2
Terminating a Partnership ......... 4
Exclusion From Partnership Rules .... 4
Partnership Return (Form 1065) ...... 4
Partnership Distributions .......... 5
Transactions Between Partnership
and Partners ............... 7
Basis of Partner's Interest ......... 9
Disposition of Partner's Interest ..... 11
Section 1061 Reporting
Instructions .............. 13
Tax Equity and Fiscal
Responsibility Act of 1982
(TEFRA) ................ 15
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015
(BBA) .................. 15
How To Get Tax Help ............ 15
Index ..................... 23
Reminder
Section 1061 reporting. Section 1061 recharacterizes certain long-term capital gains of a
partner that holds one or more applicable partnership interests as short-term capital gains. An
applicable partnership interest is an interest in a
partnership that is transferred to or held by a
taxpayer, directly or indirectly, in connection
with the performance of substantial services by
the taxpayer or any other related person, in an
applicable trade or business. See Section 1061
Reporting Instructions for more information.
Schedules K-2 and K-3 (Form 1065). Schedules K-2 and K-3 replaced the reporting of certain international transactions on Schedules K
and K-1. The schedules were designed to provide greater clarity for partners on how to compute their U.S. income tax liability with respect
to items of international tax relevance, including
claiming deductions and credits. See the Partnership Instructions for Schedules K-2 and K-3
for more information.
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the
National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing
children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise
be blank. You can help bring these children
home by looking at the photographs and calling
1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.
Publication 541
(Rev. December 2024)
Partnerships
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)
Publication 541 (Rev. 12-2024) Catalog Number 15071D
Jan 28, 2025 Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Introduction
This publication provides supplemental federal
income tax information for partnerships and
partners. It supplements the information provided in the Instructions for Form 1065, U. S. Return of Partnership Income; the Partner's Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1065),
Partner’s Share of Income, Deductions, Credits,
etc.; and the instructions for Schedule K-2 and
Schedule K-3 (Form 1065). Generally, a partnership doesn't pay tax on its income but
“passes through” any profits or losses to its
partners. Partners must include partnership
items on their tax returns.
For a discussion of business expenses a
partnership can deduct, see the 2022 version of
Pub. 535, Business Expenses. Members of oil
and gas partnerships should read about the deduction for depletion in chapter 9 of that publication.
For tax years beginning before 2018, certain
partnerships must have a tax matters partner
(TMP) who is also a general partner.
The TMP has been replaced with partnership representative for partnership tax years beginning after 2017. Each partnership must designate a partnership representative unless the
partnership has made a valid election out of the
centralized partnership audit regime. See Designated Partnership Representative in the Form
1065 instructions and Regulations section
301.6223-1.
Withholding on foreign partner or firm. A
partnership that has foreign partners or engages in certain transactions with foreign persons may have one (or more) of the following
obligations.
Fixed or determinable annual or periodical (FDAP) income. A partnership may have
to withhold tax on distributions to a foreign partner or a foreign partner’s distributive share
when it earns income not effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business. A partnership
may also have to withhold on payments to a foreign person of FDAP income not effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or business. See
section 1441 or 1442 for more information.
Withholding under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act (FIRPTA). If a
partnership acquires a U.S. real property interest from a foreign person or firm, the partnership may have to withhold tax on the amount it
pays for the property (including cash, the fair
market value (FMV) of other property, and any
assumed liability). See section 1445 for more
information.
Withholding on foreign partner’s effectively connected taxable income (ECTI). If a
partnership has income effectively connected
with a trade or business in the United States (including gain on the disposition of a U.S. real
property interest), it must withhold on the ECTI
allocable to its foreign partners. See section
1446(a) for more information.
Withholding on foreign partner’s sale of
a partnership interest. A purchaser of a partnership interest, which may include the partnership itself, may have to withhold tax on the
amount realized by a foreign partner on the sale
for that partnership interest if the partnership is
engaged in a trade or business in the United
States. See section 1446(f) for more information.
Withholding under the Foreign Account
Tax Compliance Act (FATCA). A partnership
may have to withhold tax on distributions to a
foreign partner of a foreign partner’s distributive
share when it earns withholdable payments. A
partnership may also have to withhold on withholdable payments that it makes to a foreign entity. See sections 1471 through 1474 for more
information. A partnership that has a duty to
withhold but fails to withhold may be held liable
for the tax, applicable penalties, and interest.
See section 1461 for more information.
For more information on withholding on nonresident aliens and foreign entities, see Pub.
515.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or, you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.
Useful Items
You may want to see:
Publication
334 Tax Guide for Small Business
505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
515 Withholding of Tax on Nonresident
Aliens and Foreign Entities
537 Installment Sales
538 Accounting Periods and Methods
544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
 334
 505
 515
 537
 538
 544
551 Basis of Assets
925 Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules
946 How To Depreciate Property
See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for information about getting publications and forms.
Forming a Partnership
The following sections contain general information about partnerships.
Organizations Classified as
Partnerships
An unincorporated organization with two or
more members is generally classified as a partnership for federal tax purposes if its members
carry on a trade, business, financial operation,
or venture and divide its profits. However, a joint
undertaking merely to share expenses is not a
partnership. For example, co-ownership of
property maintained and rented or leased is not
a partnership unless the co-owners provide
services to the tenants.
The rules you must use to determine
whether an organization is classified as a partnership changed for organizations formed after
1996.
Organizations formed after 1996. An organization formed after 1996 is classified as a partnership for federal tax purposes if it has two or
more members and it is none of the following.
• An organization formed under a federal or
state law that refers to it as incorporated or
as a corporation, body corporate, or body
politic.
• An organization formed under a state law
that refers to it as a joint-stock company or
joint-stock association.
• An insurance company.
• Certain banks.
• An organization wholly owned by a state,
local, or foreign government.
• An organization specifically required to be
taxed as a corporation by the Internal Revenue Code (for example, certain publicly
traded partnerships).
• Certain foreign organizations identified in
Regulations section 301.7701-2(b)(8).
• A tax-exempt organization.
• A real estate investment trust (REIT).
• An organization classified as a trust under
Regulations section 301.7701-4 or otherwise subject to special treatment under the
Internal Revenue Code.
• Any other organization that elects to be
classified as a corporation by filing Form
8832.
For more information, see the instructions for
Form 8832.
Limited liability company (LLC). An LLC
is an entity formed under state law by filing articles of organization as an LLC. Unlike a partnership, none of the members of an LLC are personally liable for its debts. However, if the LLC
is an employer, an LLC member may be liable
for employer-related penalties. See Pub. 15,
 551
 925
 946
2 Publication 541 (12-2024)
(Circular E), Employer’s Tax Guide, and Pub.
3402, Taxation of Limited Liability Companies.
An LLC may be classified for federal income tax
purposes as either a partnership, a corporation,
or an entity disregarded as an entity separate
from its owner by applying the rules in Regulations section 301.7701-3. See Form 8832 and
Regulations section 301.7701-3 for more details.
A domestic LLC with at least two members that doesn't file Form 8832 is classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.
Organizations formed before 1997. An organization formed before 1997 and classified as
a partnership under the old rules will generally
continue to be classified as a partnership as
long as the organization has at least two members and doesn't elect to be classified as a corporation by filing Form 8832.
Community property. Spouses who own a
qualified entity (defined below) can choose to
classify the entity as a partnership for federal
tax purposes by filing the appropriate partnership tax returns. They can choose to classify the
entity as a sole proprietorship by filing a Schedule C (Form 1040) listing one spouse as the
sole proprietor. A change in reporting position
will be treated for federal tax purposes as a conversion of the entity.
A qualified entity is a business entity that
meets all the following requirements.
• The business entity is wholly owned by
spouses as community property under the
laws of a state, a foreign country, or a possession of the United States.
• No person other than one or both spouses
would be considered an owner for federal
tax purposes.
• The business entity is not treated as a corporation.
For more information about community property, see Pub. 555, Community Property. Pub.
555 discusses the community property laws of
Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada,
New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin.
Partnership Interests Created by
Gift
Gift of capital interest. If a family member (or
any other person) receives a gift of a capital interest in a partnership in which capital is a material income-producing factor, the donee's distributive share of partnership income is subject
to both of the following restrictions.
• It must be figured by reducing the partnership income by reasonable compensation
for services the donor renders to the partnership.
• The donee's distributive share of partnership income attributable to donated capital
must not be proportionately greater than
the donor's distributive share attributable to
the donor's capital.
Purchase considered gift. For purposes of
determining a partner's distributive share, an interest purchased by one family member from
TIP
another family member is considered a gift from
the seller. The FMV of the purchased interest is
considered donated capital. For this purpose,
members of a family include only spouses, ancestors, and lineal descendants (or a trust for
the primary benefit of those persons).
Partnership Interests Held in
Connection With Performance of
Services
Section 1061 recharacterizes certain net
long-term capital gains of a partner that holds
one or more applicable partnership interests as
short-term capital gains. The provision generally requires that a capital asset be held for
more than 3 years for capital gain and loss allocated with respect to any applicable partnership
interest (API) to be treated as long-term capital
gain or loss. Proposed Regulations
(REG-107213-18) were published in the Federal Register on August 14, 2020. Final regulations (Treasury Decision (T.D.) 9945) were published in the Federal Register on January 19,
2021. T.D. 9945, 2021-5 I.R.B. 627, is available
at IRS.gov/irb/2021-5_IRB#TD-9945. Owner
taxpayers and pass-through entities may rely on
the proposed regulations for tax years beginning before January 19, 2021, (the date final
regulations were published in the Federal Register) provided they follow the proposed regulations in their entirety and in a consistent manner. An owner taxpayer or pass-through entity
may choose to apply the final regulations to a
tax year beginning after December 31, 2017,
provided that they consistently apply the final
section 1061 regulations in their entirety to that
year and all subsequent years. Owner taxpayers and pass-through entities must apply the final regulations to tax years beginning on or after January 19, 2021. See Section 1061
Reporting Instructions, later.
Applicable partnership interest (API). An
API is any interest in a partnership that, directly
or indirectly, is transferred to (or is held by) the
taxpayer in connection with the performance of
substantial services by the taxpayer, or any
other related person, in any “applicable trade or
business.” The special recharacterization rule
applies to:
1. Capital gains recognized by a partner from
the sale or exchange of an applicable partnership interest under sections 741(a) and
731(a); and
2. Capital gains recognized by a partnership,
allocated to a partner with respect to an
API.
Applicable trade or business. An applicable
trade or business means any activity conducted
on a regular, continuous, and substantial basis
(regardless of whether the activity is conducted
through one or more entities) which consists in
whole or in part of raising and returning capital,
and either:
• Investing in or disposing of “specific assets” (or identifying specified assets for investing or disposition), or
• Developing specified assets.
Specified assets. Specified assets are:
• Securities (as defined in section 475(c)(2),
under rules for mark-to-market accounting
for securities dealers);
• Commodities (as defined under rules for
mark-to-market accounting for commodities dealers in section 475(e)(2));
• Real estate held for rental or investment;
• Options or derivative contracts with respect to such securities;
• Cash or cash equivalents; or
• An interest in a partnership to the extent of
the partnership’s proportionate interest in
the foregoing.
Security. A security for this purpose means
any of the following.
• Share of corporate stock.
• Partnership interest or beneficial ownership interest in a widely held or publicly traded partnership or trust.
• Note, bond, debenture, or other evidence
of indebtedness.
• Interest rate, currency, or equity notional
principal contract.
• Interest in, or derivative financial instrument in, any such security or any currency
(regardless of whether section 1256 applies to the contract).
• Position that is not such a security and is a
hedge with respect to such a security and
is clearly identified.
Business Owned and Operated by
Spouses
If spouses carry on a business together and
share in the profits and losses, they may be
partners whether or not they have a formal partnership agreement. If so, they should report income or loss from the business on Form 1065.
They should not report the income on a Schedule C (Form 1040) in the name of one spouse
as a sole proprietor. However, the spouses can
elect not to treat the joint venture as a partnership by making a qualified joint venture election.
Qualified Joint Venture Election
A "qualified joint venture," whose only members
are spouses filing a joint return, can elect not to
be treated as a partnership for federal tax purposes. A qualified joint venture conducts a trade
or business where the only members of the joint
venture are spouses filing jointly; both spouses
elect not to be treated as a partnership; both
spouses materially participate in the trade or
business (see Passive Activity Limitations in the
Instructions for Form 1065 for a definition of material participation); and the business is
co-owned by both spouses and is not held in
the name of a state law entity such as a partnership or an LLC.
Under this election, a qualified joint venture
conducted by spouses who file a joint return is
not treated as a partnership for federal tax purposes and therefore doesn't have a Form 1065
filing requirement. All items of income, gain, deduction, loss, and credit are divided between
the spouses based on their respective interests
in the venture. Each spouse takes into account
their respective share of these items as a sole
Publication 541 (12-2024) 3
proprietor. Each spouse would account for their
respective share on the appropriate form, such
as Schedule C (Form 1040). For purposes of
determining net earnings from self-employment,
each spouse's share of income or loss from a
qualified joint venture is taken into account just
as it is for federal income tax purposes (that is,
based on their respective interests in the venture).
If the spouses do not make the election to
treat their respective interests in the joint venture as sole proprietorships, each spouse
should carry their share of the partnership income or loss from Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) to
their joint or separate Form(s) 1040. Each
spouse should include their respective share of
self-employment income on a separate Schedule SE (Form 1040), Self-Employment Tax.
This generally doesn't increase the total tax
on the return, but it does give each spouse
credit for social security earnings on which retirement benefits are based. However, this may
not be true if either spouse exceeds the social
security tax limitation.
For more information on qualified joint ventures, go to IRS.gov/QJV.
Partnership Agreement
The partnership agreement includes the original
agreement and any modifications. The modifications must be agreed to by all partners or
adopted in any other manner provided by the
partnership agreement. The agreement or modifications can be oral or written.
Partners can modify the partnership agreement for a particular tax year after the close of
the year but not later than the date for filing the
partnership return for that year. This filing date
doesn't include any extension of time.
If the partnership agreement or any modification is silent on any matter, the provisions of
local law are treated as part of the agreement.
Terminating a
Partnership
A partnership terminates when all its operations
are discontinued and no part of any business, financial operation, or venture is continued by
any of its partners in a partnership.
See Regulations section 1.708-1(b)(1) for
more information on the termination of a partnership. For special rules that apply to a merger,
consolidation, or division of a partnership, see
Regulations sections 1.708-1(c) and
1.708-1(d).
Date of termination. The partnership's tax
year ends on the date of termination. The date
of termination is the date the partnership completes the winding up of its affairs.
Short period return. If a partnership is terminated before the end of what would otherwise
be its tax year, Form 1065 must be filed for the
short period, which is the period from the beginning of the tax year through the date of termination. The return is due the 15th day of the 3rd
month following the date of termination. See
Partnership Return (Form 1065), later, for information about filing Form 1065.
Conversion of partnership into LLC. The
conversion of a partnership into an LLC classified as a partnership for federal tax purposes
doesn't terminate the partnership. The conversion is not a sale, exchange, or liquidation of
any partnership interest; the partnership's tax
year doesn't close; and the LLC can continue to
use the partnership's taxpayer identification
number (TIN).
However, the conversion may change some
of the partners' bases in their partnership interests if the partnership has recourse liabilities
that become nonrecourse liabilities. Because
the partners share recourse and nonrecourse liabilities differently, their bases must be adjusted
to reflect the new sharing ratios. If a decrease in
a partner's share of liabilities exceeds the partner's basis, they must recognize gain on the excess. For more information, see Effect of Partnership Liabilities under Basis of Partner's
Interest, later.
The same rules apply if an LLC classified as
a partnership is converted into a partnership.
Electronic Filing
Certain partnerships that (a) have more than
100 partners, or (b) are required by the Code or
regulations to file at least 10 returns during the
calendar year ending with or within the tax year
of the partnership, are required to file Form
1065, Schedule K-1, and related forms and
schedules electronically. For tax years beginning after July 1, 2019, a religious or apostolic
organization exempt from income tax under
section 501(d) must file Form 1065 electronically. Other partnerships generally have the option to file electronically. For details about electronic filing, see the Instructions for Form 1065.
Exclusion From
Partnership Rules
Certain partnerships that do not actively conduct a business can choose to be completely or
partially excluded from being treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. All the
partners must agree to make the choice, and
the partners must be able to figure their own
taxable income without figuring the partnership's income. However, the partners are not
exempt from the rule that limits a partner's distributive share of partnership loss to the adjusted basis of the partner's partnership interest.
Nor are they exempt from the requirement of a
business purpose for adopting a tax year for the
partnership that differs from its required tax
year.
Investing partnership. An investing partnership can be excluded if the participants in the
joint purchase, retention, sale, or exchange of
investment property meet all the following requirements.
• They own the property as co-owners.
• They reserve the right separately to take or
dispose of their shares of any property acquired or retained.
• They do not actively conduct business or
irrevocably authorize some person acting
in a representative capacity to purchase,
sell, or exchange the investment property.
Each separate participant can delegate authority to purchase, sell, or exchange their
share of the investment property for the
time being for their account, but not for a
period of more than a year.
Operating agreement partnership. An operating agreement partnership group can be excluded if the participants in the joint production,
extraction, or use of property meet all the following requirements.
• They own the property as co-owners, either in fee or under lease or other form of
contract granting exclusive operating
rights.
• They reserve the right separately to take in
kind or dispose of their shares of any property produced, extracted, or used.
• They don't jointly sell services or the property produced or extracted. Each separate
participant can delegate authority to sell
their share of the property produced or extracted for the time being for their account,
but not for a period of time in excess of the
minimum needs of the industry, and in no
event for more than 1 year.
However, this exclusion doesn't apply to an unincorporated organization one of whose principal purposes is cycling, manufacturing, or processing for persons who are not members of
the organization.
Electing the exclusion. An eligible organization that wishes to be excluded from the partnership rules must make the election not later
than the time for filing the partnership return for
the first tax year for which exclusion is desired.
This filing date includes any extension of time.
See Regulations section 1.761-2(b) for the procedures to follow.
Partnership Return
(Form 1065)
Every partnership that engages in a trade or
business or has gross income must file an information return on Form 1065 showing its income, deductions, and other required information. The partnership return must show the
names and addresses of each partner and each
partner's distributive share of taxable income.
The return must be signed by a partner. If an
LLC is treated as a partnership, it must file Form
1065 and one of its members must sign the return.
A partnership is not considered to engage in
a trade or business, and is not required to file a
Form 1065, for any tax year in which it neither
receives income nor pays or incurs any expenses treated as deductions or credits for federal
income tax purposes.
See the Instructions for Form 1065 for more
information about who must file Form 1065.
4 Publication 541 (12-2024)
Partnership
Distributions
Partnership distributions include the following.
• A withdrawal by a partner in anticipation of
the current year's earnings.
• A distribution of the current year's or prior
years' earnings not needed for working
capital.
• A complete or partial liquidation of a partner's interest.
• A distribution to all partners in a complete
liquidation of the partnership.
A partnership distribution is not taken into
account in determining the partner's distributive
share of partnership income or loss. If any gain
or loss from the distribution is recognized by the
partner, it must be reported on their return for
the tax year in which the distribution is received.
Money or property withdrawn by a partner in anticipation of the current year's earnings is treated as a distribution received on the last day of
the partnership's tax year.
Effect on partner's basis. A partner's adjusted basis in their partnership interest is decreased (but not below zero) by the money and
adjusted basis of property distributed to the
partner. See Adjusted Basis under Basis of
Partner's Interest, later.
Effect on partnership. A partnership generally doesn't recognize any gain or loss because
of distributions it makes to partners. The partnership may be able to elect to adjust the basis
of its undistributed property.
Certain distributions treated as a sale or exchange. When a partnership distributes the following items, the distribution may be treated as
a sale or exchange of property rather than a distribution.
• Unrealized receivables or substantially appreciated inventory items distributed in exchange for any part of the partner's interest
in other partnership property, including
money.
• Other property (including money) distributed in exchange for any part of a partner's
interest in unrealized receivables or substantially appreciated inventory items.
See Payments for Unrealized Receivables
and Inventory Items under Disposition of Partner's Interest, later.
This treatment doesn't apply to the following
distributions.
• A distribution of property to the partner
who contributed the property to the partnership.
• Payments made to a retiring partner or
successor in interest of a deceased partner that are the partner's distributive share
of partnership income or guaranteed payments.
Substantially appreciated inventory
items. Inventory items of the partnership are
considered to have appreciated substantially in
value if, at the time of the distribution, their total
FMV is more than 120% of the partnership's adjusted basis for the property. However, if a
principal purpose for acquiring inventory property is to avoid ordinary income treatment by reducing the appreciation to less than 120%, that
property is excluded.
Partner's Gain or Loss
A partner generally recognizes gain on a partnership distribution only to the extent any
money (and marketable securities treated as
money) included in the distribution exceeds the
adjusted basis of the partner's interest in the
partnership. Any gain recognized is generally
treated as capital gain from the sale of the partnership interest on the date of the distribution. If
partnership property (other than marketable securities treated as money) is distributed to a
partner, they generally don't recognize any gain
until the sale or other disposition of the property.
For exceptions to these rules, see Distribution of partner's debt and Net precontribution
gain, later. Also, see Payments for Unrealized
Receivables and Inventory Items under Disposition of Partner's Interest, later.
Example. The adjusted basis of Jo's partnership interest is $14,000. She receives a distribution of $8,000 cash and land that has an
adjusted basis of $2,000 and an FMV of
$3,000. Because the cash received doesn't exceed the basis of her partnership interest, Jo
doesn't recognize any gain on the distribution.
Any gain on the land will be recognized when
she sells or otherwise disposes of it. The distribution decreases the adjusted basis of Jo's
partnership interest to $4,000 [$14,000 −
($8,000 + $2,000)].
Qualified opportunity investment. If you
held a qualified investment in a qualified opportunity fund (QOF) at any time during the year,
you must file your return with Form 8997, Initial
and Annual Statement of Qualified Opportunity
Fund (QOF) Investments, attached. See the
Form 8997 instructions.
Marketable securities treated as money.
Generally, a marketable security distributed to a
partner is treated as money in determining
whether gain is recognized on the distribution.
This treatment, however, doesn't generally apply if that partner contributed the security to the
partnership or an investment partnership made
the distribution to an eligible partner.
The amount treated as money is the security's FMV when distributed, reduced (but not below zero) by the excess (if any) of:
1. The partner's distributive share of the gain
that would be recognized had the partnership sold all its marketable securities at
their FMV immediately before the transaction resulting in the distribution, over
2. The partner's distributive share of the gain
that would be recognized had the partnership sold all such securities it still held after the distribution at the FMV in (1).
For more information, including the definition
of marketable securities, see section 731(c).
Loss on distribution. A partner doesn't recognize loss on a partnership distribution unless all
the following requirements are met.
• The adjusted basis of the partner's interest
in the partnership exceeds the distribution.
• The partner's entire interest in the partnership is liquidated.
• The distribution is in money, unrealized receivables, or inventory items.
There are exceptions to these general rules.
See the following discussions. Also, see Liquidation at Partner's Retirement or Death under
Disposition of Partner's Interest, later.
Distribution of partner's debt. If a partnership acquires a partner's debt and extinguishes
the debt by distributing it to the partner, the partner will recognize capital gain or loss to the extent the FMV of the debt differs from the basis
of the debt (determined under the rules discussed under Partner's Basis for Distributed
Property, later).
The partner is treated as having satisfied the
debt for its FMV. If the issue price (adjusted for
any premium or discount) of the debt exceeds
its FMV when distributed, the partner may have
to include the excess amount in income as canceled debt.
Similarly, a deduction may be available to a
corporate partner if the FMV of the debt at the
time of distribution exceeds its adjusted issue
price.
Net precontribution gain. A partner generally
must recognize gain on the distribution of property (other than money) if the partner contributed appreciated property to the partnership
during the 7-year period before the distribution.
The gain recognized is the lesser of the following amounts.
1. The excess of:
a. The FMV of the property received in
the distribution; over
b. The adjusted basis of the partner's interest in the partnership immediately
before the distribution, reduced (but
not below zero) by any money received in the distribution.
2. The “net precontribution gain” of the partner. This is the net gain the partner would
recognize if all the property contributed by
the partner within 7 years of the distribution, and held by the partnership immediately before the distribution, were distributed to another partner, other than a
partner who owns more than 50% of the
partnership. For information about the distribution of contributed property to another
partner, see Contribution of Property under Transactions Between Partnership and
Partners, later.
The character of the gain is determined by
reference to the character of the net precontribution gain. This gain is in addition to any gain
the partner must recognize if the money distributed is more than their basis in the partnership.
For these rules, the term “money” includes
marketable securities treated as money, as discussed earlier under Marketable securities treated as money.
Publication 541 (12-2024) 5
Effect on basis. The adjusted basis of the
partner's interest in the partnership is increased
by any net precontribution gain recognized by
the partner. Other than for purposes of determining the gain, the increase is treated as occurring immediately before the distribution. See
Basis of Partner's Interest, later.
The partnership must adjust its basis in any
property the partner contributed within 7 years
of the distribution to reflect any gain that partner
recognizes under this rule.
Exceptions. Any part of a distribution that
is property the partner previously contributed to
the partnership is not taken into account in determining the amount of the excess distribution
or the partner's net precontribution gain. For this
purpose, the partner's previously contributed
property doesn't include a contributed interest
in an entity to the extent its value is due to property contributed to the entity after the interest
was contributed to the partnership.
Recognition of gain under this rule also
doesn't apply to a distribution of unrealized receivables or substantially appreciated inventory
items if the distribution is treated as a sale or
exchange, as discussed earlier under Certain
distributions treated as a sale or exchange.
Partner's Basis for
Distributed Property
Unless there is a complete liquidation of a partner's interest, the basis of property (other than
money) distributed to the partner by a partnership is its adjusted basis to the partnership immediately before the distribution. However, the
basis of the property to the partner cannot be
more than the adjusted basis of their interest in
the partnership reduced by any money received
in the same transaction.
Example 1. The adjusted basis of Emily's
partnership interest is $30,000. She receives a
distribution of property that has an adjusted basis of $20,000 to the partnership and $4,000 in
cash. Her basis for the property is $20,000.
Example 2. The adjusted basis of Steve's
partnership interest is $10,000. He receives a
distribution of $4,000 cash and property that
has an adjusted basis to the partnership of
$8,000. His basis for the distributed property is
limited to $6,000 ($10,000 − $4,000, the cash
he receives).
Complete liquidation of partner's interest.
The basis of property received in complete liquidation of a partner's interest is the adjusted basis of the partner's interest in the partnership reduced by any money distributed to the partner
in the same transaction.
Partner's holding period. A partner's holding
period for property distributed to the partner includes the period the property was held by the
partnership. If the property was contributed to
the partnership by a partner, then the period it
was held by that partner is also included.
Basis divided among properties. If the basis
of property received is the adjusted basis of the
partner's interest in the partnership (reduced by
money received in the same transaction), it
must be divided among the properties distributed to the partner. For property distributed after August 5, 1997, allocate the basis using the
following rules.
1. Allocate the basis first to unrealized receivables and inventory items included in
the distribution by assigning a basis to
each item equal to the partnership's adjusted basis in the item immediately before
the distribution. If the total of these assigned bases exceeds the allocable basis,
decrease the assigned bases by the
amount of the excess.
2. Allocate any remaining basis to properties
other than unrealized receivables and inventory items by assigning a basis to each
property equal to the partnership's adjusted basis in the property immediately before the distribution. If the allocable basis
exceeds the total of these assigned bases,
increase the assigned bases by the
amount of the excess. If the total of these
assigned bases exceeds the allocable basis, decrease the assigned bases by the
amount of the excess.
Allocating a basis increase. Allocate any
basis increase required in rule (2) above first to
properties with unrealized appreciation to the
extent of the unrealized appreciation. If the basis increase is less than the total unrealized appreciation, allocate it among those properties in
proportion to their respective amounts of unrealized appreciation. Allocate any remaining basis
increase among all the properties in proportion
to their respective FMVs.
Example. Eun's basis in her partnership interest is $55,000. In a distribution in liquidation
of her entire interest, she receives properties A
and B, neither of which is inventory or unrealized receivables. Property A has an adjusted
basis to the partnership of $5,000 and an FMV
of $40,000. Property B has an adjusted basis to
the partnership of $10,000 and an FMV of
$10,000.
To figure her basis in each property, Eun first
assigns bases of $5,000 to property A and
$10,000 to property B (their adjusted bases to
the partnership). This leaves a $40,000 basis
increase (the $55,000 allocable basis minus the
$15,000 total of the assigned bases). She first
allocates $35,000 to property A (its unrealized
appreciation). The remaining $5,000 is allocated between the properties based on their
FMVs. $4,000 ($40,000/$50,000) is allocated to
property A and $1,000 ($10,000/$50,000) is allocated to property B. Eun's basis in property A
is $44,000 ($5,000 + $35,000 + $4,000) and her
basis in property B is $11,000 ($10,000 +
$1,000).
Allocating a basis decrease. Use the following rules to allocate any basis decrease required in rule (1) or rule (2), earlier.
1. Allocate the basis decrease first to items
with unrealized depreciation to the extent
of the unrealized depreciation. If the basis
decrease is less than the total unrealized
depreciation, allocate it among those
items in proportion to their respective
amounts of unrealized depreciation.
2. Allocate any remaining basis decrease
among all the items in proportion to their
respective assigned basis amounts (as
decreased in (1)).
Example. Armando's basis in his partnership interest is $20,000. In a distribution in liquidation of his entire interest, he receives properties C and D, neither of which is inventory or
unrealized receivables. Property C has an adjusted basis to the partnership of $15,000 and
an FMV of $15,000. Property D has an adjusted
basis to the partnership of $15,000 and an FMV
of $5,000.
To figure his basis in each property, Armando first assigns bases of $15,000 to property C and $15,000 to property D (their adjusted
bases to the partnership). This leaves a
$10,000 basis decrease (the $30,000 total of
the assigned bases minus the $20,000 allocable basis). He allocates the entire $10,000 to
property D (its unrealized depreciation). Armando's basis in property C is $15,000 and his basis in property D is $5,000 ($15,000 − $10,000).
Distributions before August 6, 1997. For
property distributed before August 6, 1997, allocate the basis using the following rules.
1. Allocate the basis first to unrealized receivables and inventory items included in
the distribution to the extent of the partnership's adjusted basis in those items. If the
partnership's adjusted basis in those items
exceeded the allocable basis, allocate the
basis among the items in proportion to
their adjusted bases to the partnership.
2. Allocate any remaining basis to other distributed properties in proportion to their
adjusted bases to the partnership.
Partner's interest more than partnership
basis. If the basis of a partner's interest to be
divided in a complete liquidation of the partner's
interest is more than the partnership's adjusted
basis for the unrealized receivables and inventory items distributed, and if no other property is
distributed to which the partner can apply the
remaining basis, the partner has a capital loss
to the extent of the remaining basis of the partnership interest.
Special adjustment to basis. A partner who
acquired any part of their partnership interest in
a sale or exchange or upon the death of another
partner may be able to choose a special basis
adjustment for property distributed by the partnership. To choose the special adjustment, the
partner must have received the distribution
within 2 years after acquiring the partnership interest. Also, the partnership must not have
chosen the optional adjustment to basis when
the partner acquired the partnership interest.
If a partner chooses this special basis adjustment, the partner's basis for the property
distributed is the same as it would have been if
the partnership had chosen the optional adjustment to basis. However, this assigned basis is
not reduced by any depletion or depreciation
that would have been allowed or allowable if the
partnership had previously chosen the optional
adjustment.
The choice must be made with the partner's
tax return for the year of the distribution if the
distribution includes any property subject to
6 Publication 541 (12-2024)
depreciation, depletion, or amortization. If the
choice doesn't have to be made for the distribution year, it must be made with the return for the
first year in which the basis of the distributed
property is pertinent in determining the partner's
income tax.
A partner choosing this special basis adjustment must attach a statement to their tax return
that the partner chooses under section 732(d)
to adjust the basis of property received in a distribution. The statement must show the computation of the special basis adjustment for the
property distributed and list the properties to
which the adjustment has been allocated.
Example. Chin Ho purchased a 25% interest in X partnership for $17,000 cash. At the
time of the purchase, the partnership owned inventory having a basis to the partnership of
$14,000 and an FMV of $16,000. Thus, $4,000
of the $17,000 he paid was attributable to his
share of inventory with a basis to the partnership of $3,500.
Within 2 years after acquiring his interest,
Chin Ho withdrew from the partnership and for
his entire interest received cash of $1,500, inventory with a basis to the partnership of
$3,500, and other property with a basis of
$6,000. The value of the inventory received was
25% of the value of all partnership inventory. (It
is immaterial whether the inventory he received
was on hand when he acquired his interest.)
Because the partnership from which Chin
Ho withdrew didn't make the optional adjustment to basis, he chose to adjust the basis of
the inventory received. His share of the partnership's basis for the inventory is increased by
$500 (25% of the $2,000 difference between
the $16,000 FMV of the inventory and its
$14,000 basis to the partnership at the time he
acquired his interest). The adjustment applies
only for purposes of determining his new basis
in the inventory, and not for purposes of partnership gain or loss on disposition.
The total to be allocated among the properties Chin Ho received in the distribution is
$15,500 ($17,000 basis of his interest − $1,500
cash received). His basis in the inventory items
is $4,000 ($3,500 partnership basis + $500 special adjustment). The remaining $11,500 is allocated to his new basis for the other property he
received.
Mandatory adjustment. A partner doesn't
always have a choice of making this special adjustment to basis. The special adjustment to basis must be made for a distribution of property
(whether or not within 2 years after the partnership interest was acquired) if all the following
conditions existed when the partner received
the partnership interest.
• The FMV of all partnership property (other
than money) was more than 110% of its
adjusted basis to the partnership.
• If there had been a liquidation of the partner's interest immediately after it was acquired, an allocation of the basis of that interest under the general rules (discussed
earlier under Basis divided among properties) would have decreased the basis of
property that couldn't be depreciated, depleted, or amortized and increased the basis of property that could be.
• The optional basis adjustment, if it had
been chosen by the partnership, would
have changed the partner's basis for the
property actually distributed.
Required statement. Generally, if a partner
chooses a special basis adjustment and notifies
the partnership, or if the partnership makes a
distribution for which the special basis adjustment is mandatory, the partnership must provide a statement to the partner. The statement
must provide information necessary for the partner to figure the special basis adjustment.
Marketable securities. A partner's basis in
marketable securities received in a partnership
distribution, as determined in the preceding discussions, is increased by any gain recognized
by treating the securities as money. See Marketable securities treated as money under Partner’s Gain or Loss, earlier. The basis increase is
allocated among the securities in proportion to
their respective amounts of unrealized appreciation before the basis increase.
Transactions Between
Partnership and Partners
For certain transactions between a partner and
their partnership, the partner is treated as not
being a member of the partnership. These
transactions include the following.
1. Performing services for, or transferring
property to, a partnership if:
a. There is a related allocation and distribution to a partner; and
b. The entire transaction, when viewed
together, is properly characterized as
occurring between the partnership
and a partner not acting in the capacity of a partner.
2. Transferring money or other property to a
partnership if:
a. There is a related transfer of money or
other property by the partnership to
the contributing partner or another
partner, and
b. The transfers together are properly
characterized as a sale or exchange
of property.
Payments by accrual basis partnership to
cash basis partner. A partnership that uses
an accrual method of accounting cannot deduct
any business expense owed to a cash basis
partner until the amount is paid. However, this
rule doesn't apply to guaranteed payments
made to a partner, which are generally deductible when accrued.
Guaranteed Payments
Guaranteed payments are those made by a
partnership to a partner that are determined
without regard to the partnership's income. A
partnership treats guaranteed payments for
services, or for the use of capital, as if they were
made to a person who is not a partner. This
treatment is for purposes of determining gross
income and deductible business expenses only.
For other tax purposes, guaranteed payments
are treated as a partner's distributive share of
ordinary income. Guaranteed payments are not
subject to income tax withholding.
The partnership generally deducts guaranteed payments on Form 1065, line 10, as a
business expense. They are also listed on
Schedules K and K-1 of the partnership return.
The individual partner reports guaranteed payments on Schedule E (Form 1040) as ordinary
income, along with their distributive share of the
partnership's other ordinary income.
Guaranteed payments made to partners for
organizing the partnership or syndicating interests in the partnership are capital expenses.
Generally, organizational and syndication expenses are not deductible by the partnership.
However, a partnership can elect to deduct a
portion of its organizational expenses and amortize the remaining expenses (see Business
start-up and organizational costs in the
Instructions for Form 1065). Organizational expenses (if the election is not made) and syndication expenses paid to partners must be reported on the partners' Schedules K-1 as
guaranteed payments.
Minimum payment. If a partner is to receive a
minimum payment from the partnership, the
guaranteed payment is the amount by which the
minimum payment is more than the partner's
distributive share of the partnership income before taking into account the guaranteed payment.
Example. Under a partnership agreement,
Divya is to receive 30% of the partnership income, but not less than $8,000. The partnership
has net income of $20,000. Divya's share, without regard to the minimum guarantee, is $6,000
(30% × $20,000). The guaranteed payment that
can be deducted by the partnership is $2,000
($8,000 − $6,000). Divya's income from the
partnership is $8,000, and the remaining
$12,000 of partnership income will be reported
by the other partners in proportion to their
shares under the partnership agreement.
If the partnership net income had been
$30,000, there would have been no guaranteed
payment because her share, without regard to
the guarantee, would have been greater than
the guarantee.
Self-employed health insurance premiums.
Premiums for health insurance paid by a partnership on behalf of a partner, for services as a
partner, are treated as guaranteed payments.
The partnership can deduct the payments as a
business expense, and the partner must include
them in gross income. However, if the partnership accounts for insurance paid for a partner
as a reduction in distributions to the partner, the
partnership cannot deduct the premiums.
A partner who qualifies can deduct 100% of
the health insurance premiums paid by the partnership on their behalf as an adjustment to income. The partner cannot deduct the premiums
for any calendar month, or part of a month, in
which the partner is eligible to participate in any
subsidized health plan maintained by any employer of the partner, the partner's spouse, the
partner's dependents, or any children under age
Publication 541 (12-2024) 7
27 who are not dependents. For more information on the self-employed health insurance deduction, see chapter 8 of Pub. 334.
Including payments in partner's income.
Guaranteed payments are included in income in
the partner's tax year in which the partnership's
tax year ends.
Example 1. Under the terms of a partnership agreement, Erica is entitled to a fixed annual payment of $10,000 without regard to the
income of the partnership. Her distributive share
of the partnership income is 10%. The partnership has $50,000 of ordinary income after deducting the guaranteed payment. She must include ordinary income of $15,000 ($10,000
guaranteed payment + $5,000 ($50,000 × 10%)
distributive share) on her individual income tax
return for her tax year in which the partnership's
tax year ends.
Example 2. Lamont is a calendar year taxpayer who is a partner in a partnership. The
partnership uses a fiscal year that ended January 31, 2024. Lamont received guaranteed payments from the partnership from February 1,
2023, until December 31, 2023. He must include these guaranteed payments in income for
2024 and report them on his 2024 income tax
return.
Payments resulting in loss. If guaranteed
payments to a partner result in a partnership
loss in which the partner shares, the partner
must report the full amount of the guaranteed
payments as ordinary income. The partner separately takes into account their distributive
share of the partnership loss, to the extent of
the adjusted basis of the partner's partnership
interest.
Sale or Exchange of
Property
Special rules apply to a sale or exchange of
property between a partnership and certain persons.
Losses. Losses will not be allowed from a sale
or exchange of property (other than an interest
in the partnership) directly or indirectly between
a partnership and a person whose direct or indirect interest in the capital or profits of the partnership is more than 50%.
If the sale or exchange is between two partnerships in which the same persons directly or
indirectly own more than 50% of the capital or
profits interests in each partnership, no deduction of a loss is allowed.
The basis of each partner's interest in the
partnership is decreased (but not below zero)
by the partner's share of the disallowed loss.
If the purchaser later sells the property, only
the gain realized that is greater than the loss not
allowed will be taxable. If any gain from the sale
of the property is not recognized because of this
rule, the basis of each partner's interest in the
partnership is increased by the partner's share
of that gain.
Gains. Gains are treated as ordinary income in
a sale or exchange of property directly or indirectly between a person and a partnership, or
between two partnerships, if both of the following tests are met.
• More than 50% of the capital or profits interest in the partnership(s) is directly or indirectly owned by the same person(s).
• The property in the hands of the transferee
immediately after the transfer is not a capital asset. Property that is not a capital asset includes accounts receivable, inventory, stock-in-trade, and depreciable or real
property used in a trade or business.
More than 50% ownership. To determine if
there is more than 50% ownership in partnership capital or profits, the following rules apply.
1. An interest directly or indirectly owned by,
or for, a corporation, partnership, estate, or
trust is considered to be owned proportionately by, or for, its shareholders, partners, or beneficiaries.
2. An individual is considered to own the interest directly or indirectly owned by, or for,
the individual's family. For this rule, “family”
includes only brothers, sisters, half-brothers, half-sisters, spouses, ancestors, and
lineal descendants.
3. If a person is considered to own an interest using rule (1), that person (the “constructive owner”) is treated as if actually
owning that interest when rules (1) and (2)
are applied. However, if a person is considered to own an interest using rule (2),
that person is not treated as actually owning that interest in reapplying rule (2) to
make another person the constructive
owner.
Example. Individuals A and B and Trust T
are equal partners in Partnership ABT. A's husband, AH, is the sole beneficiary of Trust T.
Trust T's partnership interest will be attributed to
AH only for the purpose of further attributing the
interest to A. As a result, A is a more-than-50%
partner. This means that any deduction for losses on transactions between her and ABT will
not be allowed, and gain from property that in
the hands of the transferee is not a capital asset
is treated as ordinary, rather than capital, gain.
More information. For more information on
these special rules, see Sales and Exchanges
Between Related Persons in chapter 2 of Pub.
544.
Contribution of Property
Usually, neither the partner nor the partnership
recognizes a gain or loss when property is contributed to the partnership in exchange for a
partnership interest. This applies whether a
partnership is being formed or is already operating. The partnership's holding period for the
property includes the partner's holding period.
The contribution of limited partnership interests in one partnership for limited partnership
interests in another partnership qualifies as a
tax-free contribution of property to the second
partnership if the transaction is made for business purposes. The exchange is not subject to
the rules explained later under Disposition of
Partner's Interest.
Disguised sales. A contribution of money or
other property to the partnership followed by a
distribution of different property from the partnership to the partner is treated not as a contribution and distribution, but as a sale of property,
if both of the following tests are met.
• The distribution wouldn't have been made
but for the contribution.
• The partner's right to the distribution
doesn't depend on the success of partnership operations.
All facts and circumstances are considered
in determining if the contribution and distribution are more properly characterized as a sale.
However, if the contribution and distribution occur within 2 years of each other, the transfers
are presumed to be a sale unless the facts
clearly indicate that the transfers are not a sale.
If the contribution and distribution occur more
than 2 years apart, the transfers are presumed
not to be a sale unless the facts clearly indicate
that the transfers are a sale.
Form 8275 required. A partner must attach Form 8275, Disclosure Statement, (or
other statement) to their return if the partner
contributes property to a partnership and, within
2 years (before or after the contribution), the
partnership transfers money or other consideration to the partner. For exceptions to this requirement, see Regulations section 1.707-3(c)
(2).
A partnership must attach Form 8275 (or
other statement) to its return if it distributes
property to a partner, and, within 2 years (before
or after the distribution), the partner transfers
money or other consideration to the partnership.
Form 8275 must include the following information.
• A caption identifying the statement as a
disclosure under section 707.
• A description of the transferred property or
money, including its value.
• A description of any relevant facts in determining if the transfers are properly viewed
as a disguised sale. See Regulations section 1.707-3(b)(2) for a description of the
facts and circumstances considered in determining if the transfers are a disguised
sale.
Contribution to partnership treated as investment company. Gain is recognized when
property is contributed (in exchange for an interest in the partnership) to a partnership that
would be treated as an investment company if it
were incorporated.
A partnership is generally treated as an investment company if over 80% of the value of
its assets is held for investment and consists of
certain readily marketable items. These items
include money, stocks and other equity interests
in a corporation, and interests in regulated investment companies (RICs) and REITs. For
more information, see section 351(e)(1) and the
related regulations. Whether a partnership is
treated as an investment company under this
test is ordinarily determined immediately after
the transfer of property.
This rule applies to limited partnerships and
general partnerships, regardless of whether
they are privately formed or publicly syndicated.
8 Publication 541 (12-2024)
Contribution to foreign partnership. A domestic partnership that contributed property after August 5, 1997, to a foreign partnership in
exchange for a partnership interest may have to
file Form 8865, Return of U.S. Persons With Respect to Certain Foreign Partnerships, if either
of the following applies.
1. Immediately after the contribution, the
partnership owned, directly, indirectly, or
by attribution, at least a 10% interest in the
foreign partnership.
2. The FMV of the property contributed to the
foreign partnership, when added to other
contributions of property made to the partnership during the preceding 12-month
period, is greater than $100,000.
The partnership may also have to file Form
8865, even if no contributions are made during
the tax year, if it owns a 10% or more interest in
a foreign partnership at any time during the
year. See the form instructions for more information.
Basis of contributed property. If a partner
contributes property to a partnership, the partnership's basis for determining depreciation,
depletion, gain, or loss for the property is the
same as the partner's adjusted basis for the
property when it was contributed, increased by
any gain recognized by the partner at the time
of contribution.
Allocations to account for built-in gain or
loss. The FMV of property at the time it is contributed may be different from the partner's adjusted basis. The partnership must allocate
among the partners any income, deduction,
gain, or loss on the property in a manner that
will account for the difference. This rule also applies to contributions of accounts payable and
other accrued but unpaid items of a cash basis
partner.
The partnership can use different allocation
methods for different items of contributed property. A single reasonable method must be consistently applied to each item, and the overall
method or combination of methods must be
reasonable. See Regulations section 1.704-3
for allocation methods generally considered
reasonable.
If the partnership sells contributed property
and recognizes gain or loss, built-in gain or loss
is allocated to the contributing partner. If contributed property is subject to depreciation or
other cost recovery, the allocation of deductions
for these items takes into account built-in gain
or loss on the property. However, the total depreciation, depletion, gain, or loss allocated to
partners cannot be more than the depreciation
or depletion allowable to the partnership or the
gain or loss realized by the partnership.
Example. Areta and Sofia formed an equal
partnership. Areta contributed $10,000 in cash
to the partnership and Sofia contributed depreciable property with an FMV of $10,000 and an
adjusted basis of $4,000. The partnership's basis for depreciation is limited to the adjusted basis of the property in Sofia's hands, $4,000.
In effect, Areta purchased an undivided
one-half interest in the depreciable property
with her contribution of $10,000. Assuming that
the depreciation rate is 10% a year under the
General Depreciation System (GDS), she would
have been entitled to a depreciation deduction
of $500 per year, based on her interest in the
partnership, if the adjusted basis of the property
equaled its FMV when contributed. To simplify
this example, the depreciation deductions are
determined without regard to any first-year depreciation conventions.
However, because the partnership is allowed only $400 per year of depreciation (10%
of $4,000), no more than $400 can be allocated
between the partners. The entire $400 must be
allocated to Areta.
Distribution of contributed property to another partner. If a partner contributes property
to a partnership and the partnership distributes
the property to another partner within 7 years of
the contribution, the contributing partner must
recognize gain or loss on the distribution.
The recognized gain or loss is the amount
the contributing partner would have recognized
if the property had been sold for its FMV when it
was distributed. This amount is the difference
between the property's basis and its FMV at the
time of contribution. The character of the gain or
loss will be the same as the character of the
gain or loss that would have resulted if the partnership had sold the property to the distributee
partner. Appropriate adjustments must be made
to the adjusted basis of the contributing partner's partnership interest and to the adjusted
basis of the property distributed to reflect the
recognized gain or loss.
Disposition of certain contributed property.
The following rules determine the character of
the partnership's gain or loss on a disposition of
certain types of contributed property.
1. Unrealized receivables. If the property
was an unrealized receivable in the hands
of the contributing partner, any gain or loss
on its disposition by the partnership is ordinary income or loss. Unrealized receivables are defined later under Payments for
Unrealized Receivables and Inventory
Items. When reading the definition, substitute “partner” for “partnership.”
2. Inventory items. If the property was an
inventory item in the hands of the contributing partner, any gain or loss on its disposition by the partnership within 5 years after
the contribution is ordinary income or loss.
Inventory items are defined later under
Payments for Unrealized Receivables and
Inventory Items.
3. Capital loss property. If the property was
a capital asset in the contributing partner's
hands, any loss on its disposition by the
partnership within 5 years after the contribution is a capital loss. The capital loss is
limited to the amount by which the partner's adjusted basis for the property exceeded the property's FMV immediately
before the contribution.
4. Substituted basis property. If the disposition of any of the property listed in (1),
(2), or (3) is a nonrecognition transaction,
these rules apply when the recipient of the
property disposes of any substituted basis
property (other than certain corporate
stock) resulting from the transaction.
Contribution of Services
A partner can acquire an interest in partnership
capital or profits as compensation for services
performed or to be performed.
Capital interest. A capital interest is an interest that would give the holder a share of the
proceeds if the partnership's assets were sold
at FMV and the proceeds were distributed in a
complete liquidation of the partnership. This determination is generally made at the time of receipt of the partnership interest. The FMV of
such an interest received by a partner as compensation for services must generally be included in the partner's gross income in the first tax
year in which the partner can transfer the interest or the interest is not subject to a substantial
risk of forfeiture. The capital interest transferred
as compensation for services is subject to the
rules for restricted property discussed under
Employee Compensation in Pub. 525, Taxable
and Nontaxable Income.
The FMV of an interest in partnership capital
transferred to a partner as payment for services
to the partnership is a guaranteed payment, discussed earlier under Guaranteed Payments.
Profits interest. A profits interest is a partnership interest other than a capital interest. If a
person receives a profits interest for providing
services to, or for the benefit of, a partnership in
a partner capacity or in anticipation of being a
partner, the receipt of such an interest is not a
taxable event for the partner or the partnership.
However, this doesn't apply in the following situations.
• The profits interest relates to a substantially certain and predictable stream of income from partnership assets, such as income from high-quality debt securities or a
high-quality net lease.
• Within 2 years of receipt, the partner disposes of the profits interest.
• The profits interest is a limited partnership
interest in a publicly traded partnership.
A profits interest transferred as compensation for services is not subject to the rules for restricted property that apply to capital interests.
Basis of Partner's
Interest
The basis of a partnership interest is the money
plus the adjusted basis of any property the partner contributed. If the partner must recognize
gain as a result of the contribution, this gain is
included in the basis of their interest. Any increase in a partner's individual liabilities because of an assumption of partnership liabilities
is considered a contribution of money to the
partnership by the partner.
Interest acquired by gift, etc. If a partner acquires an interest in a partnership by gift, inheritance, or under any circumstance other than by
Publication 541 (12-2024) 9
a contribution of money or property to the partnership, the partner's basis must be determined
using the basis rules described in Pub. 551.
Adjusted Basis
There is a worksheet for adjusting the
basis of a partner's interest in the partnership in the Partner's Instructions for
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065).
The basis of an interest in a partnership is
increased or decreased by certain items.
Increases. A partner's basis is increased by
the following items.
• The partner's additional contributions to
the partnership, including an increased
share of, or assumption of, partnership liabilities.
• The partner's distributive share of taxable
and nontaxable partnership income.
• The partner's distributive share of the excess of the deductions for depletion over
the basis of the depletable property, unless
the property is oil or gas wells whose basis
has been allocated to partners.
Decreases. The partner's basis is decreased
(but never below zero) by the following items.
• The money (including a decreased share
of partnership liabilities or an assumption
of the partner's individual liabilities by the
partnership) and adjusted basis of property
distributed to the partner by the partnership.
• The partner's distributive share of the partnership losses (including capital losses).
• The partner's distributive share of nondeductible partnership expenses that are not
capital expenditures. This includes the
partner's share of any section 179 expenses, even if the partner cannot deduct the
entire amount on their individual income
tax return.
• The partner's deduction for depletion for
any partnership oil and gas wells, up to the
proportionate share of the adjusted basis
of the wells allocated to the partner.
• A partner’s distributive share of foreign
taxes paid or accrued by the partnership
for tax years beginning after 2017.
• A partner’s distributive share of the adjusted basis of a partnership’s property donation to charity.
Note. If the property’s FMV exceeds its adjusted basis, a special rule provides that the basis limitation on partner losses does not apply
to the extent of the partner’s distributive share of
the excess for tax years beginning after 2017.
Partner's liabilities assumed by partnership. If contributed property is subject to a debt
or if a partner's liabilities are assumed by the
partnership, the basis of that partner's interest is
reduced (but not below zero) by the liability assumed by the other partners. This partner must
reduce their basis because the assumption of
the liability is treated as a distribution of money
to that partner. The other partners' assumption
of the liability is treated as a contribution by
them of money to the partnership. See Effect of
Partnership Liabilities, later.
TIP
Example 1. Ivan acquired a 20% interest in
a partnership by contributing property that had
an adjusted basis to him of $8,000 and a
$4,000 mortgage. The partnership assumed
payment of the mortgage. The basis of Ivan's interest is:
Adjusted basis of contributed property ...... $8,000
Minus: Part of mortgage assumed by other
partners (80% (0.80) × $4,000) ...........
3,200
Basis of Ivan's partnership interest ........ $4,800
Example 2. If, in Example 1, the contributed property had a $12,000 mortgage, the basis of Ivan's partnership interest would be zero.
The $1,600 difference between the mortgage
assumed by the other partners, $9,600 (80% ×
$12,000), and his basis of $8,000 would be
treated as capital gain from the sale or exchange of a partnership interest. However, this
gain wouldn't increase the basis of his partnership interest.
Book value of partner's interest. The adjusted basis of a partner's interest is determined
without considering any amount shown in the
partnership books as a capital, equity, or similar
account.
Example. Enzo contributes to his partnership property that has an adjusted basis of
$400 and an FMV of $1,000. His partner contributes $1,000 cash. While each partner has increased his capital account by $1,000, which
will be reflected in the partnership’s books, the
adjusted basis of Enzo's interest is only $400
and the adjusted basis of his partner's interest
is $1,000.
When determined. The adjusted basis of a
partner's partnership interest is ordinarily determined at the end of the partnership's tax year.
However, if there has been a sale or exchange
of all or part of the partner's interest or a liquidation of their entire interest in a partnership, the
adjusted basis is determined on the date of
sale, exchange, or liquidation.
Alternative rule for figuring adjusted basis.
In certain cases, the adjusted basis of a partnership interest can be figured by using the
partner's share of the adjusted basis of partnership property that would be distributed if the
partnership terminated.
This alternative rule can be used in either of
the following situations.
• The circumstances are such that the partner cannot practicably apply the general
basis rules.
• It is, in the opinion of the IRS, reasonable
to conclude that the result produced will
not vary substantially from the result under
the general basis rules.
Adjustments may be necessary in figuring
the adjusted basis of a partnership interest under the alternative rule. For example, adjustments would be required to include in the partner's share of the adjusted basis of partnership
property any significant discrepancies that resulted from contributed property, transfers of
partnership interests, or distributions of property
to the partners.
Effect of Partnership
Liabilities
A partner's basis in a partnership interest includes the partner's share of a partnership liability only if, and to the extent that, the liability:
1. Creates or increases the partnership's basis in any of its assets;
2. Gives rise to a current deduction to the
partnership; or
3. Is a nondeductible, noncapital expense of
the partnership.
The term “assets” in (1) includes capitalized
items allocable to future periods, such as organization expenses.
A partner's share of accrued but unpaid expenses or accounts payable of a cash basis
partnership is not included in the adjusted basis
of the partner's interest in the partnership.
Partner's basis increased. If a partner's
share of partnership liabilities increases, or a
partner's individual liabilities increase because
they assume partnership liabilities, this increase
is treated as a contribution of money by the
partner to the partnership.
Partner's basis decreased. If a partner's
share of partnership liabilities decreases, or a
partner's individual liabilities decrease because
the partnership assumes their individual liabilities, this decrease is treated as a distribution of
money to the partner by the partnership.
Assumption of liability. Generally, a partner
or related person is considered to assume a
partnership liability only to the extent that:
1. They’re personally liable for it,
2. The creditor knows that the liability was
assumed by the partner or related person,
3. The creditor can demand payment from
the partner or related person, and
4. No other partner or person related to another partner will bear the economic risk of
loss on that liability immediately after the
assumption.
Related person. Related persons, for
these purposes, includes all the following.
• An individual and their spouse, ancestors,
and lineal descendants.
• An individual and a corporation if the individual directly or indirectly owns 80% or
more in value of the outstanding stock of
the corporation.
• Two corporations that are members of the
same controlled group.
• A grantor and a fiduciary of any trust.
• Fiduciaries of two separate trusts if the
same person is a grantor of both trusts.
• A fiduciary and a beneficiary of the same
trust.
• A fiduciary and a beneficiary of two separate trusts if the same person is a grantor
of both trusts.
• A fiduciary of a trust and a corporation if
the trust or the grantor of the trust directly
or indirectly owns 80% or more in value of
the outstanding stock of the corporation.
10 Publication 541 (12-2024)
• A person and a tax-exempt educational or
charitable organization controlled directly
or indirectly by the person or by members
of the person's family.
• A corporation and a partnership if the
same persons own 80% or more in value of
the outstanding stock of the corporation
and 80% or more of the capital or profits interest in the partnership.
• Two S corporations or an S corporation
and a C corporation if the same persons
own 80% or more in value of the outstanding stock of each corporation.
• An executor and a beneficiary of an estate.
• A partnership and a person owning, directly or indirectly, 80% or more of the capital or profits interest in the partnership.
• Two partnerships if the same persons directly or indirectly own 80% or more of the
capital or profits interests.
Property subject to a liability. If property
contributed to a partnership by a partner or distributed by the partnership to a partner is subject to a liability, the transferee is treated as having assumed the liability to the extent it doesn't
exceed the FMV of the property.
Partner's share of recourse liabilities. A
partnership liability is a recourse liability to the
extent that any partner or a related person, defined earlier under Related person, has an economic risk of loss for that liability. A partner's
share of a recourse liability equals their economic risk of loss for that liability. A partner has
an economic risk of loss if that partner or a related person would be obligated (whether by
agreement or law) to make a net payment to the
creditor or a contribution to the partnership with
respect to the liability if the partnership were
constructively liquidated. A partner who is the
creditor for a liability that would otherwise be a
nonrecourse liability of the partnership has an
economic risk of loss in that liability.
Constructive liquidation. Generally, in a
constructive liquidation, the following events are
treated as occurring at the same time.
• All partnership liabilities become payable
in full.
• All of the partnership's assets have a value
of zero, except for property contributed to
secure a liability.
• All property is disposed of by the partnership in a fully taxable transaction for no
consideration except relief from liabilities
for which the creditor's right to reimbursement is limited solely to one or more assets
of the partnership.
• All items of income, gain, loss, or deduction are allocated to the partners.
• The partnership liquidates.
Example. Juan and Teresa form a cash basis general partnership with cash contributions
of $20,000 each. Under the partnership agreement, they share all partnership profits and losses equally. The partnership borrows $60,000
and purchases depreciable business equipment. This debt is included in the partners' basis in the partnership because incurring it creates an additional $60,000 of basis in the
partnership's depreciable property.
If neither partner has an economic risk of
loss in the liability, it is a nonrecourse liability.
Each partner's basis would include their share
of the liability, $30,000.
If Teresa is required to pay the creditor if the
partnership defaults, she has an economic risk
of loss in the liability. Her basis in the partnership would be $80,000 ($20,000 + $60,000),
while Juan's basis would be $20,000.
Limited partner. A limited partner generally has no obligation to contribute additional
capital to the partnership and therefore doesn't
have an economic risk of loss in partnership recourse liabilities. Thus, absent some other factor, such as the guarantee of a partnership liability by the limited partner or the limited partner
making the loan to the partnership, a limited
partner generally doesn't have a share of partnership recourse liabilities.
Partner's share of nonrecourse liabilities. A
partnership liability is a nonrecourse liability if
no partner or related person has an economic
risk of loss for that liability. A partner's share of
nonrecourse liabilities is generally proportionate
to their share of partnership profits. However,
this rule may not apply if the partnership has
taken deductions attributable to nonrecourse liabilities or the partnership holds property that
was contributed by a partner.
More information. For more information on
the effect of partnership liabilities, including
rules for limited partners and examples, see
Regulations sections 1.752-1 through 1.752-5.
Disposition of Partner's
Interest
The following discussions explain the treatment
of gain or loss from the disposition of an interest
in a partnership.
Abandoned or worthless partnership interest. A loss incurred from the abandonment or
worthlessness of a partnership interest is an ordinary loss only if both of the following tests are
met.
• The transaction is not a sale or exchange.
• The partner has not received an actual or
deemed distribution from the partnership.
If the partner receives even a de minimis actual
or deemed distribution, the entire loss is generally a capital loss. However, see Payments for
Unrealized Receivables and Inventory Items,
later.
For information on how to report an abandonment loss, see the Instructions for Form
4797, Sales of Business Property. See Revenue
Ruling 93-80 for more information on determining if a loss incurred on the abandonment or
worthlessness of a partnership interest is a capital or an ordinary loss.
Partnership election to adjust basis of partnership property. Generally, a partnership's
basis in its assets is not affected by a transfer of
an interest in the partnership, whether by sale or
exchange or because of the death of a partner.
However, the partnership can elect to make an
optional adjustment to basis in the year of transfer.
Sale, Exchange, or Other
Transfer
The sale or exchange of a partner's interest in a
partnership usually results in capital gain or
loss. However, see Payments for Unrealized
Receivables and Inventory Items, later, for certain exceptions. Gain or loss is the difference
between the amount realized and the adjusted
basis of the partner's interest in the partnership.
If the selling partner is relieved of any partnership liabilities, that partner must include the liability relief as part of the amount realized for
their interest.
Example 1. Kumar became a limited partner in the ABC Partnership by contributing
$10,000 in cash on the formation of the partnership. The adjusted basis of his partnership interest at the end of the current year is $20,000,
which includes his $15,000 share of partnership
liabilities. The partnership has no unrealized receivables or inventory items. Kumar sells his interest in the partnership for $10,000 in cash. He
had been paid his share of the partnership income for the tax year.
Kumar realizes $25,000 from the sale of his
partnership interest ($10,000 cash payment +
$15,000 liability relief). He reports $5,000
($25,000 realized − $20,000 adjusted basis) as
a capital gain.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in
Example 1, except that Kumar withdraws from
the partnership when the adjusted basis of his
interest in the partnership is zero. He is considered to have received a distribution of $15,000,
his relief of liability. He reports a capital gain of
$15,000.
Installment reporting for sale of partnership
interest. A partner who sells a partnership interest at a gain may be able to report the sale
on the installment method. For requirements
and other information on installment sales, see
Pub. 537.
Part of the gain from the installment sale
may be allocable to unrealized receivables or
inventory items. See Payments for Unrealized
Receivables and Inventory Items next. The gain
allocable to unrealized receivables and inventory items must be reported in the year of sale.
The gain allocable to the other assets can be
reported under the installment method.
Payments for Unrealized
Receivables and Inventory
Items
If a partner receives money or property in exchange for any part of a partnership interest, the
amount due to their share of the partnership's
unrealized receivables or inventory items results
in ordinary income or loss. This amount is treated as if it were received for the sale or exchange of property that is not a capital asset.
This treatment applies to the unrealized receivables part of payments to a retiring partner
or successor in interest of a deceased partner
only if that part is not treated as paid in exchange for partnership property. See Liquidation at Partner's Retirement or Death, later.
Publication 541 (12-2024) 11
Unrealized receivables. Unrealized receivables include any rights to payment not already
included in income for the following items.
• Goods delivered or to be delivered to the
extent the payment would be treated as received for property other than a capital asset.
• Services rendered or to be rendered.
These rights must have arisen under a contract or agreement that existed at the time of
sale or distribution, even though the partnership
may not be able to enforce payment until a later
date. For example, unrealized receivables include accounts receivable of a cash method
partnership and rights to payment for work or
goods begun but incomplete at the time of the
sale or distribution of the partner's share.
The basis for any unrealized receivables includes all costs or expenses for the receivables
that were paid or accrued but not previously
taken into account under the partnership's
method of accounting.
Other items treated as unrealized receivables. Unrealized receivables include potential
gain that would be ordinary income if the following partnership property were sold at its FMV on
the date of the payment.
• Mining property for which exploration expenses were deducted.
• Stock in a domestic international sales corporation (DISC).
• Certain farmland for which expenses for
soil and water conservation or land clearing were deducted.
• Franchises, trademarks, or trade names.
• Oil, gas, or geothermal property for which
intangible drilling and development costs
were deducted.
• Stock of certain controlled foreign corporations.
• Market discount bonds and short-term obligations.
• Property subject to recapture of depreciation under sections 1245 and 1250. Depreciation recapture is discussed in chapter 3
of Pub. 544.
Determining gain or loss. The income or
loss realized by a partner upon the sale or exchange of its interest in unrealized receivables
and inventory items, discussed below, is the
amount that would have been allocated to the
partner if the partnership had sold all of its property for cash at FMV, in a fully taxable transaction, immediately prior to the partner's transfer
of interest in the partnership. Any gain or loss
recognized that is attributable to the unrealized
receivables and inventory items will be ordinary
gain or loss.
Example. You are a partner in ABC Partnership. The adjusted basis of your partnership interest at the end of the current year is zero. Your
share of potential ordinary income from partnership depreciable property is $5,000. The partnership has no other unrealized receivables or
inventory items. You sell your interest in the
partnership for $10,000 in cash and you report
the entire amount as a gain because your adjusted basis in the partnership is zero. You report as ordinary income your $5,000 share of
potential ordinary income from the partnership's
depreciable property. The remaining $5,000
gain is a capital gain.
Inventory items. Inventory items are not limited to stock-in-trade of the partnership. They
also include the following property.
• Property that would properly be included in
the partnership's inventory if on hand at the
end of the tax year or that is held primarily
for sale to customers in the normal course
of business.
• Property that, if sold or exchanged by the
partnership, wouldn't be a capital asset or
section 1231 property (real or depreciable
business property held more than 1 year).
For example, accounts receivable acquired
for services or from the sale of inventory
and unrealized receivables are inventory
items.
• Property held by the partnership that would
be considered inventory if held by the partner selling the partnership interest or receiving the distribution.
Notification required of partner. If a partner
exchanges a partnership interest attributable to
unrealized receivables or inventory for money or
property, they must notify the partnership in writing. This must be done within 30 days of the
transaction or, if earlier, by January 15 of the
calendar year following the calendar year of the
exchange. A partner may be subject to a $50
penalty for each failure to notify the partnership
about such a transaction, unless the failure was
due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.
Information return required of partnership.
When a partnership is notified of an exchange
of partnership interests involving unrealized receivables or inventory items, the partnership
must file Form 8308, Report of a Sale or Exchange of Certain Partnership Interests. Form
8308 is filed with Form 1065 for the tax year that
includes the last day of the calendar year in
which the exchange took place. If notified of an
exchange after filing Form 1065, the partnership
must file Form 8308 separately, within 30 days
of the notification.
On Form 8308, the partnership provides its
telephone number and states the date of the exchange and the names, addresses, and TINs of
the partnership filing the return and the transferee and transferor in the exchange. The partnership must provide a copy of Form 8308 (or a
written statement with the same information) to
each transferee and transferor by the later of
January 31 following the end of the calendar
year or 30 days after it receives notice of the exchange.
The partnership may be subject to a penalty
for each failure to timely file Form 8308 and a
penalty for each failure to furnish a copy of Form
8308 to a transferor or transferee, unless the
failure is due to reasonable cause and not willful
neglect. If the failure is intentional, a higher penalty may be imposed. See sections 6722, 6723,
and 6724 for details.
Statement required of partner. If a partner
sells or exchanges any part of an interest in a
partnership having unrealized receivables or inventory, they must file a statement with their tax
return for the year in which the sale or exchange
occurs. The statement must contain the following information.
• The date of the sale or exchange.
• The amount of any gain or loss attributable
to the unrealized receivables or inventory.
• The amount of any gain or loss attributable
to capital gain or loss on the sale of the
partnership interest.
Partner's disposition of distributed unrealized receivables or inventory items. In general, any gain or loss on a sale or exchange of
unrealized receivables or inventory items a partner received in a distribution is an ordinary gain
or loss. For this purpose, inventory items do not
include real or depreciable business property,
even if they are not held more than 1 year.
Example. Oscar, a distributee partner, received his share of accounts receivable when
his law firm dissolved. The partnership used the
cash method of accounting, so the receivables
had a basis of zero. If Oscar later collects the
receivables or sells them, the amount he receives will be ordinary income.
Exception for inventory items held more
than 5 years. If a distributee partner sells inventory items held for more than 5 years after
the distribution, the type of gain or loss depends
on how they are being used on the date sold.
The gain or loss is capital gain or loss if the
property is a capital asset in the partner's hands
at the time sold.
Example. Marucia receives, through dissolution of her partnership, inventory that has a
basis of $19,000. Within 5 years, she sells the
inventory for $24,000. The $5,000 gain is taxed
as ordinary income. If she had held the inventory for more than 5 years, her gain would have
been capital gain, provided the inventory was a
capital asset in her hands at the time of sale.
Substituted basis property. If a distributee partner disposes of unrealized receivables
or inventory items in a nonrecognition transaction, ordinary gain or loss treatment applies to a
later disposition of any substituted basis property resulting from the transaction.
Foreign partner's transfer of an interest in a
partnership engaged in the conduct of a
U.S. trade or business. Section 864(c)(8) requires a foreign partner that transfers part or all
of an interest in a partnership engaged in the
conduct of a trade or business in the United
States (U.S. trade or business) to include in income the effectively connected gain or loss
from the transfer. A partnership distribution is
considered a transfer when it results in recognition of gain or loss. See Regulations section
1.731-1(a).
In general, any foreign person, any domestic
partnership that has a foreign person as a direct
partner, and any domestic partnership that has
actual knowledge that a foreign person indirectly holds, through one or more partnerships,
an interest in the domestic partnership that
transfers an interest in a partnership engaged in
12 Publication 541 (12-2024)
a U.S. trade or business must notify the partnership of the transfer in writing within 30 days after
the transfer. The notification must include:
• The names and addresses of the notifying
transferor and the transferee or transferees;
• The U.S. TIN of the notifying transferor
and, if known, of the transferee or transferees; and
• The date of the transfer.
This notification requirement does not apply
to the transfer of an interest in a publicly traded
partnership if the interest is publicly traded on
an established securities market or is readily
tradable on a secondary market (or the substantial equivalent thereof). It also does not apply to a notifying transferor that is treated as
transferring an interest in the partnership because it received a distribution from the partnership. This notification may be combined with or
provided at the same time as the statement required of a partner that sells or exchanges any
part of an interest in a partnership having unrealized receivables or inventory, provided that it
satisfies the requirements of both sections. For
more information, see Regulations section
1.864(c)(8)-2.
To determine the amount of gain or loss described in section 864(c)(8), generally, a foreign
transferor must first determine its outside gain
or loss on the transfer of a partnership interest.
For this purpose, outside gain or loss is determined under all relevant provisions of the Code
and regulations thereunder. A foreign transferor
may recognize outside capital gain or loss and
outside ordinary gain or loss on the transfer of
its partnership interest and must separately apply section 864(c)(8) with respect to its capital
gain or loss and its ordinary gain or loss.
The foreign transferor must compare the
outside gain or loss amounts with the relevant
aggregate deemed sale effectively connected
gain or loss that the partnership calculates
based on the foreign transferor's distributive
share of gain or loss that would have been effectively connected if the partnership had sold
all of its assets at FMV. This information will be
provided to the notifying transferor on or before
the due date (with extensions) for issuing
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065). The foreign transferor only includes in income the lower of the
outside amount and the deemed sale effectively
connected amount. This determination is made
separately with respect to capital gain or loss
and ordinary gain or loss. For example, a foreign transferor would compare its outside ordinary gain to its aggregate deemed sale effectively connected ordinary gain, treating the
former as effectively connected gain only to the
extent it does not exceed the latter. For more information, see Regulations section 1.864(c)
(8)-1.
Liquidation at Partner's
Retirement or Death
Payments made by the partnership to a retiring
partner or successor in interest of a deceased
partner in return for the partner's entire interest
in the partnership may have to be allocated between payments in liquidation of the partner's
interest in partnership property and other
payments. The partnership's payments include
an assumption of the partner's share of partnership liabilities treated as a distribution of money.
For income tax purposes, a retiring partner
or successor in interest of a deceased partner
is treated as a partner until their interest in the
partnership has been completely liquidated.
Liquidating payments. Payments made in liquidation of the interest of a retiring or deceased
partner in exchange for their interest in partnership property are considered a distribution, not
a distributive share or guaranteed payment that
could give rise to a deduction (or its equivalent)
for the partnership.
Unrealized receivables and goodwill.
Payments made for the retiring or deceased
partner's share of the partnership's unrealized
receivables or goodwill are not treated as made
in exchange for partnership property if both of
the following tests are met.
• Capital is not a material income-producing
factor for the partnership. Whether capital
is a material income-producing factor is explained under Partnership Interests Created by Gift, earlier.
• The retiring or deceased partner was a
general partner in the partnership.
However, this rule doesn't apply to payments for
goodwill to the extent that the partnership
agreement provides for a reasonable payment
to a retiring partner for goodwill.
Unrealized receivables include, to the extent
not previously includible in income under the
method of accounting used by the partnership,
any rights (contractual or otherwise) to payment
for (1) goods delivered, or to be delivered, to the
extent the proceeds therefrom would be treated
as amounts received from the sale or exchange
of property other than a capital asset; or (2)
services rendered, or to be rendered.
Partners' valuation. Generally, the partners' valuation of a partner's interest in partnership property in an arm's-length agreement will
be treated as correct. If the valuation reflects
only the partner's net interest in the property (total assets less liabilities), it must be adjusted so
that both the value of, and the basis for, the
partner's interest include the partner's share of
partnership liabilities.
Gain or loss on distribution. Upon the receipt of the distribution, the retiring partner or
successor in interest of a deceased partner will
recognize gain only to the extent that any
money (and marketable securities treated as
money) distributed is more than the partner's
adjusted basis in the partnership. The partner
will recognize a loss only if the distribution is in
money, unrealized receivables, and inventory
items. No loss is recognized if any other property is received. See Partner's Gain or Loss under Partnership Distributions, earlier.
Other payments. Payments made by the partnership to a retiring partner or successor in interest of a deceased partner that are not made
in exchange for an interest in partnership property are treated as distributive shares of partnership income or guaranteed payments. This rule
applies regardless of the time over which the
payments are to be made. It applies to payments made for the partner's share of unrealized receivables and goodwill not treated as a
distribution.
If the amount is based on partnership income, the payment is taxable as a distributive
share of partnership income. The payment retains the same character when reported by the
recipient that it would have had if reported by
the partnership.
If the amount is not based on partnership income, it is treated as a guaranteed payment.
The recipient reports guaranteed payments as
ordinary income. For additional information on
guaranteed payments, see Transactions Between Partnership and Partners, earlier.
These payments are included in income by
the recipient for their tax year that includes the
end of the partnership tax year for which the
payments are a distributive share or in which
the partnership is entitled to deduct them as
guaranteed payments.
Former partners who continue to make guaranteed periodic payments to satisfy the partnership's liability to a retired partner after the partnership is terminated can deduct the payments
as a business expense in the year paid.
Section 1061 Reporting
Instructions
The instructions for owner taxpayer filing requirements and pass-through entity filing and
reporting requirements are in accordance with
Regulations section 1.1061-6. For more information, see T.D. 9945, 2021-5, I.R.B. 627, available at IRS.gov/irb/2021-5_IRB#TD-9945, for
specific rules and definitions.
Pass-Through Entity
Reporting to API Holders
A pass-through entity is required to attach
Worksheet A to the API holder’s Schedule K-1
for tax returns filed after December 31, 2021, in
which a pass-through entity applies the final
regulations under T.D. 9945. A pass-through entity means a partnership, trust, estate, S corporation described in Regulations section
1.1061-3(b)(2)(i), or a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) described in Regulations
section 1.1061-3(b)(2)(ii). The pass-through entity must provide the information in Worksheet A
to each API holder, including owner taxpayer, as
an attachment to the Schedule K-1 for the applicable form, noting the proper box and code. For
the 2024 Form 1065, it’s box 20, code AM. For
the 2024 Form 1120-S, U.S. Income Tax Return
for an S Corporation, it’s box 17, code ZZ. For
the 2024 Form 1041, U.S. Income Tax Return
for Estates and Trusts, it’s box 14, code ZZ.
See Regulations section 1.1061-6(c) for the
section 1061 reporting rules of a RIC and a
REIT. In the case of RICs and REITs, the information will be furnished in connection with the
Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions.
Regulations section 1.1061-6(d) permits a
PFIC with respect to which the shareholder is
an API holder who has a qualified electing fund
election (as described in section 1295(a)) in effect for the tax year to provide additional
Publication 541 (12-2024) 13
information to the shareholder to determine the
amount of the shareholder's inclusion that
would be included in the Section 1061 Worksheet A: API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount
and API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount. If the
PFIC furnishes this information to the shareholder, the shareholder must retain a copy of
this information along with the other information
required to be retained under Regulations section 1.1295-1(f)(2)(ii).
A pass-through entity that is not required to
and does not choose to apply the final regulations to tax returns filed after December 31,
2021, for a tax year beginning before January
19, 2021, must attach a worksheet to the API
holder's Schedule K-1 that contains similar information as Worksheet A, and must disclose
whether the information was determined under
the proposed regulations or another method.
Calculation and Reporting for the
API 1-Year Distributive Share
Amount and 3-Year Distributive
Share Amount by a Pass-Through
Entity
• Section 1061 Worksheet A.
Owner Taxpayer Calculation
of Amount Treated as
Short-Term Capital Gain
Under Section 1061
An owner taxpayer is the person who is subject
to federal income tax on the recharacterization
amount, and could be an individual, estate, or
trust. An owner taxpayer uses information provided by all the pass-through entities in which it
holds an API, directly or indirectly, to determine
the amount that is recharacterized as short-term
capital gain under sections 1061(a) and (d) for a
tax year. For tax returns filed after December
31, 2021, in which an owner taxpayer applies
the final regulations under T.D. 9945, Worksheet
B must be used to determine the amount of the
owner taxpayer’s recharacterization amount.
Worksheet B, along with Table 1 and Table 2,
are to be attached to the owner taxpayer’s tax
return.
An owner taxpayer that is not required to
and does not choose to apply the final regulations to tax returns filed after December 21,
2021, for a tax year beginning before January
19, 2021, must attach worksheets to its return
that contain similar information as Worksheet B,
Table 1, and Table 2; and must disclose
whether the information was determined under
proposed regulations or another method.
Calculation and Reporting of
Recharacterization Amount by the
Owner Taxpayer
• Section 1061 Worksheet B.
• Section 1061 Table 1: API 1-Year Disposition Amount.
• Section 1061 Table 2: API 3-Year Disposition Amount.
The Owner Taxpayer
Reporting of the
Recharacterization Amount
on Schedule D (Form 1040)
or Schedule D (Form 1041)
and on Form 8949
An owner taxpayer reports long- and short-term
API gains and losses on Schedule D (Form
1040) or Schedule D (Form 1041) and on Form
8949, Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital
Assets, as if section 1061 does not apply. In addition, if the owner taxpayer has a recharacterization amount as computed on line 7 of Worksheet B, and/or any amounts resulting from the
application of section 1061(d) (transfer of an
API to a related person) on line 8 of Worksheet
B (see Regulations section 1.1061-5(c)), the
owner taxpayer will increase the reported
short-term capital gain by listing as a transaction identified as "Section 1061 Adjustment" on
Form 8949, Part I, line 1, column (a), and entering the amount from line 9 of Worksheet B as
proceeds (column (d) of Form 8949) and zero
as basis (column (e) of Form 8949). The owner
taxpayer will make corresponding entries on
Form 8949, Part II, line 1, to reduce the reported
long-term capital gain by listing as a transaction
identified as "Section 1061 Adjustment" in column (a) of Form 8949 and entering zero as proceeds (column (d) of Form 8949) and the
amount from line 9 of Worksheet B as basis
(column (e) of Form 8949).
The Owner Taxpayer
Reporting of Collectibles
Gain and Unrecaptured
Section 1250 Gain
Pending further guidance, if the owner taxpayer
sells an API and recognizes collectibles gain or
loss or unrecaptured section 1250 gain, or if a
pass-through entity reports that collectibles gain
or loss or unrecaptured section 1250 gain is
treated as API gain or loss, the owner taxpayer
must use a reasonable method to compute the
amount of the inclusion of collectibles gain
and/or unrecaptured section 1250 gain in the
recharacterization amount that is calculated in
Worksheet B. If the owner taxpayer has received an API 1-year distributive share amount
and an API 3-year distributive share amount
that includes collectibles gain or loss and/or unrecaptured section 1250 gain from a
pass-through entity, the owner taxpayer should
include those amounts on lines 1 and 4, respectively, of Worksheet B. If the owner taxpayer has
received an API 1-year distributive share
amount and an API 3-year distributive share
amount that includes collectibles gain or loss
and/or unrecaptured section 1250 gain from a
pass-through entity, the owner taxpayer should
include those amounts on lines 1 and 4, respectively, of Worksheet B.
On line 10 of Worksheet B, the owner taxpayer must report the total amount of collectibles gains for the tax year that the owner taxpayer has with respect to any interest in a
pass-through entity (pass-through interests)
that it owns. It must also report the amount of
collectibles gain that is recharacterized as
short-term capital gain under section 1061 and
the amount of collectibles gain that is not recharacterized and that is included in the 28%
Rate Gain Worksheet (see line 18 of Schedule D (Form 1040), or line 18c of Schedule D
(Form 1041)). Collectibles gain or loss that is
API gain or loss and is included in the calculation of the recharacterization amount, but not recharacterized, must be included in the 28%
Rate Gain Worksheet. Collectibles gain or loss
with respect to a pass-through interest that is
treated as capital interest gain or loss must also
be included in the 28% Rate Gain Worksheet.
Similarly, on line 11 of Worksheet B, the
owner taxpayer must report the total amount of
unrecaptured section 1250 gain for the tax year
that the owner taxpayer has with respect to any
pass-through interests that it owns. It must also
report the amount of unrecaptured section 1250
gain that is recharacterized as short-term capital gain under section 1061 and the amount of
unrecaptured section 1250 gain that is not recharacterized and that is included in the Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet (see
line 19 of Schedule D (Form 1040), or line 18b
of Schedule D (Form 1041)). Unrecaptured section 1250 gain or loss that is API gain or loss
and is included in the calculation of the recharacterization amount, but not recharacterized,
must be included in the Unrecaptured Section
1250 Gain Worksheet. Unrecaptured section
1250 gain or loss with respect to a pass-through
interest that is treated as capital interest gain or
loss must also be included in the Unrecaptured
Section 1250 Gain Worksheet.
Reporting example for Worksheets A and B.
Owner Taxpayer M, an individual, holds an API
in XYZ Partnership and receives a Schedule K-1 with Worksheet A attached from XYZ
Partnership for the tax year 2024, that contains
a long-term capital gain of $55,000 in box 9a of
the Schedule K-1. Taxpayer M did not dispose
of an API in 2024. The following is a summary
of Worksheet A that XYZ Partnership attached
to Taxpayer M's Schedule K-1: Line 4 has an
API 1-year distributive share amount of $55,000
and line 7 has an API 3-year distributive share
amount of $20,000.
Taxpayer M reports a $55,000 long-term
capital gain from XYZ Partnership on Schedule D (Form 1040), line 12. Taxpayer M chose to
follow the final regulations under T.D. 9945 in
preparation of their 2024 tax return and prepares and attaches Worksheet B to their Form
1040. Worksheet B has a 1-year gain amount
on line 3 of $55,000, a 3-year gain amount of
$20,000 on line 6, a recharacterization amount
on line 7 of $35,000, and a section 1061 adjustment on line 9 of $35,000. In addition to reporting the long-term capital gain of $55,000 on
Schedule D (Form 1040), line 12, Taxpayer M
reports on Form 8949, Part I, line 1, a short-term
capital gain of $35,000, and on Part II, line 1, a
long-term capital loss of ($35,000). Both Form
8949 items are described in column (a) as
"Section 1061 Adjustment."
14 Publication 541 (12-2024)
Tax Equity and Fiscal
Responsibility Act of
1982 (TEFRA)
TEFRA is the common acronym used for a set
of consolidated examination, processing, and
judicial procedures which determine the tax
treatment of partnership items at the partnership level for partnerships and LLCs that file as
partnerships. TEFRA created the unified partnership audit and litigation procedures (TEFRA
partnership procedures) of sections 6221
through 6234 (prior to the amendments by the
BBA). For additional information on TEFRA
partnership procedures, see the January 2016
revision of Pub. 541.
The TEFRA partnership audit procedures were repealed and do not apply
to tax years beginning after 2017. The
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA) is effective
for partnership tax years beginning after 2017.
Bipartisan Budget Act of
2015 (BBA)
The BBA created a new centralized partnership
audit regime effective for partnership tax years
beginning after 2017. The new regime replaces
the consolidated audit proceedings under TEFRA and the electing large partnership provisions. The new audit regime applies to all partnerships unless the partnership is an eligible
partnership and elects out by making a valid
election. See the Instructions for Form 1065 and
go to IRS.gov/businesses/partnerships/bbacentralized-partnership-audit-regime.
Role of Partnership
Representative
Under the centralized partnership audit regime,
partnerships are required to designate a partnership representative. The partnership representative will have the sole authority to act on
behalf of the partnership under the centralized
partnership audit regime. The designated partnership representative is a partner or other person with substantial presence in the United
States. If the designated partnership representative is an entity, the partnership must also appoint a designated individual to act on behalf of
the entity partnership representative. The partnership must include information regarding the
partnership representative and designated individual (if applicable) on Form 1065, Schedule B.
For more information, see the Instructions for
Form 1065.
Electing Out of the
Centralized Partnership
Audit Regime
A partnership can elect out of the centralized
partnership audit regime for a tax year if the
partnership is an eligible partnership that year.
A partnership is an eligible partnership for a tax
CAUTION
!
year if it has 100 or fewer eligible partners. A
partner is an eligible partner if it is an individual,
a C corporation, a foreign entity that would be
treated as a C corporation if it were domestic,
an S corporation, or an estate of a deceased
partner. The determination as to whether the
partnership has 100 or fewer partners is made
by adding the number of Schedules K-1 required to be issued by the partnership to the
number of Schedules K-1 required to be issued
by any partner that is an S corporation to its
shareholders for the tax year of the S corporation ending with or within the partnership tax
year. A partnership is not an eligible partnership
if it is required to issue a Schedule K-1 to any of
the following partners.
• A partnership.
• A trust.
• A foreign entity that would not be treated
as a C corporation were it a domestic entity.
• A disregarded entity described in Regulations section 301.7701-2(c)(2)(i).
• An estate of an individual other than a deceased partner.
• Any person that holds an interest in the
partnership on behalf of another person.
See the Instructions for Form 1065 if electing out of the centralized partnership audit
regime.
An annual election out of the centralized
partnership audit regime must be made on the
eligible partnership’s timely filed return, including extensions, for the tax year to which the
election applies. The election is made by including the following information on Schedule B-2
(Form 1065) and filing with the tax return.
• The name of each partner.
• The TIN of each partner.
• The federal tax classification for each partner.
• If an S corporation is a partner, provide the
names, TINs, and federal tax classification
of any shareholder of the S corporation for
the tax year of the S corporation ending
with or within the partnership’s tax year.
This annual election once made may not be
revoked without the consent of the IRS. A partnership that elects out of the centralized partnership audit regime must notify each of its
partners of the election within 30 days of making the election. By making the election out of
the centralized partnership audit regime, you
are affirming that all of the partners in the partnership meet the eligibility requirements under
section 6221(b)(1)(C) and you have provided all
of the required information with the Form 1065.
Administrative Adjustment
Request
Rather than filing an amended return, a partnership that is subject to the centralized partnership audit regime must file an administrative adjustment request (AAR) to change the amount
or treatment of one or more partnership-related
items. If filing electronically, file Form 8082, Notice of Inconsistent Treatment or Administrative
Adjustment Request (AAR), with a Form 1065,
or Form 1065-X, Amended Return or Administrative Adjustment Request (AAR).
AARs filed under the centralized partnership audit regime. Partnerships subject to the
centralized partnership audit regime and filing
an AAR that results in an imputed underpayment and any interest or penalties related to the
imputed underpayment should report the imputed underpayment and any related interest and
penalties on Form 1065 or 1065-X (as applicable). See the Instructions for Form 1065.
See the instructions for Form 8082 or
1065-X (as applicable) for the following.
• Information pertaining to certain modifications that are allowable for the partnership
to include in its calculation of an AAR imputed underpayment.
• Information pertaining to the ability for the
partnership to make an election under section 6227(b)(2) to have the adjustments of
the AAR taken into account by the reviewed year partners, rather than the partnership making an imputed underpayment.
Partner amended return filed as part of
modification of the imputed underpayment
during a BBA examination. Section 6225(c)
allows a BBA partnership under examination to
request specific types of modifications of any
imputed underpayment proposed by the IRS.
One type of modification (under section 6225(c)
(2)) that may be requested is when one or more
(reviewed year) partners file amended returns
for the tax years of the partners which includes
the end of the reviewed year of the BBA partnership under examination and for any tax year
with respect to which tax attributes are affected.
See the Instructions for Form 8980.
How To Sign Documents on
Behalf of the Partnership
How To Sign Documents on Behalf of the
Partnership
The following are examples of how a partnership
representative (PR) should sign documents on behalf of
the partnership. The manner in which the PR signs
depends on whether the PR is an entity or an individual.
If the PR is an entity, the designated individual (DI) signs
in their capacity to act on behalf of that entity PR.
Designated
Partnership
Representative
(PR)
Signature as
Partnership
Representative
(PR)
Example
Individual Individual's
signature
John Smith, PR
Entity Designated
individual’s (DI)
signature
Entity Name, PR,
by John Smith, DI
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need
help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you
right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation
statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
Publication 541 (12-2024) 15
other government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement
statements from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to
choose from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax
professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online
or in your local community, if you qualify, include
the following.
• Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file individual federal tax returns online—for free—directly and securely with
the IRS. Direct File is an option for taxpayers in participating states who have relatively simple tax returns reporting certain
types of income and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Direct File
doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in
a participating state, Direct File guides you
to a state-supported tool you can use to
prepare and file your state tax return for
free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile for more information, program updates, and frequently asked questions.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare
and file your federal individual income tax
return for free using software or Free File
Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File.
Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify
for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to
people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. Go to
IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all
taxpayers, particularly those who are 60
years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues
unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or
download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms,
which can be completed online and then
e-filed regardless of income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility
Checker to help you determine if Direct File
is the right choice for your tax filing needs.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned income credit
(EIC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4App) makes it easier for you to estimate
the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay,
or tax due.
• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account
Look-up (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on your repayments and
account balance.
• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you
get answers to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant,
a tool that will ask you questions and,
based on your input, provide answers on a
number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions,
and publications. You will find details on
the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your
questions.
• You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.
Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers,
including enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don’t have professional credentials. If
you choose to have someone prepare your tax
return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax
preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs
the return, you're ultimately responsible
for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item
reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare
tax returns for others should have a thorough
understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips
for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/
employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected
Wage and Tax Statement.
CAUTION
!
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a partnership, or an S corporation, you
can view your tax information on record with the
IRS and do more with a business tax account.
Go to IRS.gov/businessaccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
our highest priority. We use these tools to share
public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide
short, informative videos on various tax-related
topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages.
You can find information on IRS.gov/
MyLanguage if English isn’t your native language.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS is committed to serving taxpayers
with limited-English proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Service is a federally
funded program and is available at Taxpayer
Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices,
and every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI
Service is accessible in more than 350 languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call
833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can
answer questions related to current and future
accessibility products and services available in
alternative media formats (for example, braille,
large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account.
For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000,
Alternative Media Preference, or Form
9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain
types of written correspondence in the following
formats.
• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all
the forms, instructions, and publications you
may need. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order.
16 Publication 541 (12-2024)
Mobile-friendly forms. You'll need an IRS
Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures. You'll
have the option to submit your form(s) online or
download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans
of your documents to support your submission.
Go to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in
eBook format. Download and view most tax
publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on mobile devices as
eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's
iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and
eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
• View your address on file or manage your
communication preferences.
Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You
can get a transcript, review your most recently
filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at
IRS.gov/Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS OLA. For
more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest
way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and
choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS.
Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit
union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related
identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens when
someone steals your personal information
to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages (including
shortened links), telephone calls, or social
media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information
on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and
businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of
tax-related identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP
PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their
SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return
with your SSN. To learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February for returns that claimed
the EIC or the additional child tax credit
(ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not
just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars.
Digital assets are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill
or estimated tax payment directly from your
checking or savings account at no cost to
you.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet:
Choose an approved payment processor
to pay online or by phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a
payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or
through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do
same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and time frames.
Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption
technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe
CAUTION
!
and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy,
and faster than mailing in a check or money order.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/
Form1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status
of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date
you filed your amended return for it to
show up in our system, and processing
it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find
additional information about responding to an
IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be
able use the Document Upload Tool to respond
digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online
through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP
(Form 1040), Request for Change in Language
Preference, to state a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications
from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The IRS’s
commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a
multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications, including notices and letters, in
English until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind,
many questions can be answered on IRS.gov
without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp
for the topics people ask about most. If you still
need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All
TACs now provide service by appointment, so
you’ll know in advance that you can get the
service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find
the nearest TAC and to check hours, available
services, and appointment options. Or, on the
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab,
choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
———————————————————
CAUTION
!
Publication 541 (12-2024) 17
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization established by Congress.
The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate
Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes
administrative and legislative recommendations
to prevent or correct the problems, and protects
taxpayer rights. We work to ensure that every
taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know and
understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill
of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.
How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you
haven’t been able to resolve with the IRS on
your own. Always try to resolve your problem
with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then come to
TAS. Our services are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You
may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if
you’ve tried and been unable to resolve
your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an
IRS system, process, or procedure just
isn't working as it should.
• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov.
The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if
you make a mistake on your return or if you
get a notice from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at
www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)
How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local
advocate’s number:
• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a
Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the
rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter
with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer
rights and ensure the IRS is administering the
tax law in a fair and equitable way.
Section 1061
Worksheets and Tables
18 Publication 541 (12-2024)
Section 1061 Worksheet A: API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount and API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount
(Completed by a pass-through entity that has issued an API and attached to the Schedule K-1.)
Pass-Through Entity Name EIN
API Holder SSN or TIN
Line Description API Gains and (Losses)*
1 Net long-term capital gain (loss) from Schedule K-1 (Form
1065), box 9a; Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), box 8a; or
Schedule K-1 (Form 1041), box 4a(a)
$
2 Capital gains or (losses) included in line 1 that are not
subject to section 1061 under Regulations section
1.1061-4(b)(7)
$
3 Capital interest gains or (losses) under Regulations section
1.1061-3(c)(2) included in line 1(b)
$
4 API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount
Subtract the sum of lines 2 and 3 from line 1.
$
5 Amounts included in line 4 that would not be treated as
long-term gain or (loss) if 3 years is substituted for 1 year
under paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1222
$
6 Any Lookthrough Rule adjustment applicable to the
disposition of an API by the pass-through entity under
Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(9)(c)
$
7 API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount Gain or (Loss)
Subtract the sum of lines 5 and 6 from line 4.
$
* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.
(a)Calculation for collectibles gains or unrecaptured section 1250 gains. If a partnership, S corporation, estate, or trust has
collectibles gain or loss or unrecaptured section 1250 gain that is treated as API gain or loss, the pass-through entity must provide
the API holder with information to determine whether collectibles gain or unrecaptured section 1250 gain is recharacterized under
section 1061. The pass-through entity must provide the API holder with information that enables the API holder to separately
determine its API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount and its API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount for its collectibles gain or loss
and/or its unrecaptured section 1250 gain. This information should be attached to Worksheet A.
(b)Capital interest gains and losses. See Regulations section 1.1061-3(c)(2) for computation of capital interest gains and losses.
(c)Lookthrough Rule information. See Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(9) for computation of Lookthrough Rule amount
adjustment.
Publication 541 (12-2024) 19
Section 1061 Worksheet B: Owner Taxpayer Reporting of Recharacterization Amount
(The owner taxpayer must complete and attach to their return.)
Taxpayer Name SSN or TIN
Line Description Gains and (Losses)*
1 API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount from Worksheet A,
line 4, which is attached to Schedule K-1.
Combined net amount from all APIs and increased by the API
1-Year Distributive Share Amount of collectibles gain or loss
and/or unrecaptured section 1250 gain, if applicable.
$
2 API 1-Year Disposition Amount from Table 1, line 4.
Combined net amount from all APIs.
$
3 1-Year Gain Amount
Add lines 1 and 2. If the sum of line 1 plus line 2 is zero or
less, enter zero on line 3 and skip to line 8.
$
4 API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount from Worksheet A,
line 7, which is attached to the Schedule K-1.
Combined net amount from all APIs, increased by the
amount of API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount of
collectibles gain or loss and/or recaptured section 1250 gain,
if applicable.
$
5 API 3-Year Disposition Amount from Table 2, line 4.
Combined net amount for all APIs.
$
6 3-Year Gain Amount
Add lines 4 and 5. If the sum of line 4 plus line 5 is zero or
less, enter zero.
$
7 Recharacterization Amount (treat as short-term capital
gain)
Subtract line 6 from line 3. If zero or less, enter zero.
$
8 Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount (as
determined in Regulations section 1.1061-5(c)).
$
9 Section 1061 Adjustment to Form 8949
Add lines 7 and 8. (This amount is an adjustment to increase
short-term capital gain and decrease long-term capital gain
amounts on Form 8949, Parts I and II. See The Owner
Taxpayer Reporting of the Recharacterization Amount on
Schedule D for instructions on how to report adjustments on
tax return.)
$
10** (a) Total collectibles gain with respect to any interest in
a pass-through entity (per Schedule K-1 (Form 1065),
box 9b; Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), box 8b; Schedule K-1
(Form 1041), box 4b)
$
(b) Amount of collectibles gain included in the
recharacterization amount
$
(c) Amount of collectibles gain entered in the 28% Rate
Gain Worksheet (see line 18 of the Schedule D (Form
1040), or line 28c of the Schedule D (Form 1041))
$
11*** (a) Total unrecaptured section 1250 gain with respect to
any interest in a pass-through entity (per Schedule K-1
(Form 1065), box 9c; Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), box 8c;
Schedule K-1 (Form 1041), box 4c)
$
(b) Amount of unrecaptured section 1250 gain included
in the recharacterization amount
$
(c) Amount of unrecaptured section 1250 gain entered
in the Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet (see
line 19 of the Schedule D (Form 1040), or line 18b of the
Schedule D (Form 1041))
$
* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.
** The sum of the amount entered on line 10(b) plus the amount entered on line 10(c) must equal the amount entered on line 10(a)
(see The Owner Taxpayer Reporting of Collectibles Gain and Unrecaptured Section 1250 for instructions on how to report
adjustments on tax return).
*** The sum of the amount entered on line 11(b) plus the amount entered on line 11(c) must equal the amount entered on line 11(a)
(see The Owner Taxpayer Reporting of Collectibles Gain and Unrecaptured Section 1250 for instructions on how to report
adjustments on tax return).
20 Publication 541 (12-2024)
Section 1061 Table 1: API 1-Year Disposition Amount
(Separately computed for each API. Required to be attached to the owner taxpayer’s tax return.)
Name of Owner Taxpayer SSN/TIN
Name of Pass-Through Entity Pass-Through EIN
Line Description Gains and (Losses)*
1 Long-term capital gains and losses recognized on the
disposition by the owner taxpayer, including long-term capital
gain computed under the installment method that is taken into
account during the tax year of all or a portion of any API held
for more than 1 year including a disposition to which the
Lookthrough Rule in Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(9)
applies.
$
2 Long-term capital gain and loss recognized by the owner
taxpayer on a disposition with respect to an API during the tax
year that is treated under section 731(a) as gain or loss from
the sale or exchange of a partnership interest held for more
than 1 year.
$
3 Long-term capital gains and losses recognized by the owner
taxpayer on the disposition of distributed API property (taking
into account deemed exchanges under section 751(b)) during
the tax year that has a holding period of more than 1 year but
not more than 3 years to the distributee owner taxpayer on the
date of disposition, excluding items described in Regulations
section 1.1061-4(b)(7).
$
4 API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount
Combine lines 1 through 3. Enter amount on line 2 of
Worksheet B.
$
* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.
Publication 541 (12-2024) 21
Section 1061 Table 2: API 3-Year Disposition Amount
(Separately computed for each API. Required to be attached to the owner taxpayer’s tax return.)
Name of Owner Taxpayer SSN/TIN
Name of Pass-Through Entity Pass-Through EIN
Line Description Gains and (Losses)*
1 Long-term capital gains and losses recognized on the
disposition by the owner taxpayer, including long-term capital
gain computed under the installment method that is taken into
account for the tax year of all or a portion of any API held for
more than 3 years and to which the Lookthrough Rule in
Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(9) does not apply.
$
2 Long-term capital gains and losses recognized by an owner
taxpayer on the disposition during the tax year of all or a
portion of an API that has been held for more than 3 years in a
transaction to which the Lookthrough Rule in Regulations
section 1.1061-4(b)(9) applies, less any adjustments required
under the Lookthrough Rule in Regulations section
1.1061-4(b)(9)(ii).
$
3 Long-term capital gains and losses recognized on a
distribution with respect to an API during the tax year that is
treated under section 731(a) as gain or loss from the sale or
exchange of a partnership interest held for more than 3 years.
$
4 API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount
Combine lines 1 through 3. Enter amount on line 5 of
Worksheet B.
$
* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.
22 Publication 541 (12-2024)
To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us. Index
A
Allocations:
Built-in gain or loss 9
Installment sale 11
Assistance (See Tax help)
B
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015
(BBA) 15
Built-in gain or loss 9
C
Capital interest 9
Contribution:
Basis of property 9
Built-in gain or loss 9
Distribution of property 9
Net precontribution gain 5
Property 8
Services 9
D
Definition, partnership 2
Determining ownership 8
Distributions:
Gain or loss 5
Partner's debt 5
Partnership 5
Distributive share:
Adjusted basis 10
Guaranteed payments 7
E
Electronic filing 4
F
Form:
8275 8
8308 12
8832 2
8865 9
G
Guaranteed payments 7
H
How to sign documents on
behalf of the partnership 15
I
Insurance, self-employed
health 7
Inventory items, substantially
appreciated 5
L
Liability:
Assumption of 10
Partner's assumed by
partnership 10
Partnership's 10
Limited liability company 2
Liquidation:
Constructive 11
Partner's interest 6
Partner's retirement or death 13
Losses:
Sales or exchanges 8
M
Marketable securities 5
P
Partner's:
Basis:
Distributed property 6
Partnership interest 9
Interest:
Alternative rule, adjusted
basis 10
Basis 9
Basis adjustments 10
Book value 10
Gift 3, 9
Liquidation of 6, 13
Mandatory basis
adjustment 7
Performance of services 3
Sale, exchange, transfer 11
Special basis adjustment 6
Transactions with partnership 7
Partnership:
Abandoned or worthless
interest 11
Agreement 4
Basis, contributed property 9
Defined 2
Exclusion from rules 4
Forming 2
Liabilities 10
Terminating 4
Transactions with partner 7
Precontribution gain 5
Profits interest 9
Publications (See Tax help)
S
Section 1061 3, 13
Section 1061 Worksheets and
Tables 18
Self-employed health
insurance 7
Short period return 4
Substantially appreciated
inventory items 5
T
Tax help 15
Tax withholding, foreign partner
of firm 2
TEFRA 15
Terminating a partnership 4
U
Unrealized receivables 12
Publication 541 (12-2024) 23


I have an LLC, now what? 7 things you should do after you form an LLC
By: Jennifer Woodside
small business services
Kickstart your new business in minutes

Find out what business type is right for you

Get Started
Forming an LLC is a relatively easy process. Still, there are several things you need to do after you’ve filed your Articles of Organization and before you can start operating your business.

If you’re asking, “what to do after the LLC is formed?”, here are seven critical steps you should take after the initial filing.

Step 1: Complete any additional formation requirements
Some states require additional filings or steps at the time of incorporation, such as a county-level filing, publishing notice of the LLC formation in a local newspaper, or an initial report filing.

For example, New York requires LLCs to publish notice of the incorporation for six consecutive weeks in two newspapers as assigned by the county clerk in the county of the LLC’s legal address. A Certificate of Publication should then be filed with the Department of State upon completion of the publication requirement.

If you’re creating your LLC in New Jersey, you are required to initially submit a Public Records Filing for New Business Entity with the Corporate Filing Unit of the NJ Division of Revenue & Enterprise Services. Then within 60 days of forming your LLC, you must file a Business Registration form. You do have the option of filing both forms at the same time. The NJ-REG asks for extensive information related to taxation.

Step 2: Create an LLC operating agreement
Even if your state doesn’t require you to have an LLC operating agreement at the time of formation, it’s still vital that you have one. An operating agreement can protect your company’s status, ensure that members abide by the rules, and help mitigate any issues or misunderstandings that can arise — even if you operate a single-member LLC.

What should you include in your LLC operating agreement? Among the items to include are the following:

How the LLC will be managed by its members (owners) or manager. (Read more on LLC management in LLC members vs. LLC managers.)
How the management team will be selected
How key business decisions will be made
What actions require a vote by the members (and what percentage is required for approval)
The duties and responsibilities of the members
How profits, losses, and tax items will be allocated among members
The procedure for transferring ownership interests or bringing in additional members
Events that could trigger the dissolution of the LLC
Your succession plans
How the LLC will be dissolved
Consult a lawyer to help you draft your LLC operating agreement. If you choose to draft your own, be sure to have a lawyer review it before members sign.

Step 3: Fulfill other LLC internal requirements
In addition to the LLC operating agreement, members and managers must also undertake other internal requirements. Although commonly overlooked, these must be documented as part of your company records. Records may need to be presented when you sell the company or are involved in a lawsuit.

While not required, it’s recommended that your LLC do the following:

Issue membership certificates to members and record the action in the membership transfer ledger
Hold and document an initial meeting of members and managers
Hold and document an annual meeting of members and managers
Step 4: Obtain an EIN
Before you can pay business taxes, you may need to register your business with the IRS and obtain an employee identification number (EIN). An EIN is the equivalent of a social security number for your business and is required on your state and federal tax filings.

A single-member LLC without employees is not required to obtain an EIN. Taxes are filed using a social security number. Still, there are compelling reasons to get an EIN. An EIN is often needed to open a business bank account to help ensure the separation of your business and personal finances.

Step 5: Open a business bank account
Opening a business bank account and obtaining a business credit card helps to maintain the separation of business and personal assets. This helps to prevent “piercing the corporate veil”, which is a legal phrase that describes when the owners of a corporation lose the limited liability that having a corporation provides them. When this happens, the owners’ personal assets can be used to satisfy business debts and liabilities. This concept also applies to LLCs.

Maintaining a business bank account helps you ensure liability protection of your LLC and the security of your personal assets in the event your business is sued or found liable.

A bank account and credit card also help build business credit — something that suppliers and vendors will verify before transacting business with you. For this reason, consider opening your business accounts as soon as you start incurring business expenses or accepting money.

Step 6: Obtain necessary licenses, permits, and registrations
Business licenses are issued by federal, state, and local governments. Depending on the industry and jurisdiction in which your LLC operates, you may need to obtain licenses from multiple government levels. Below is a list of the common licensing-related requirements for any business.

Basic business operation license. This is a license from the city in which your business will operate, or from the local county (if the business will be operated outside of the city's legal boundaries).
State tax ID number. Issued by your state’s department of revenue or taxation, the state tax ID number is also called a tax registration number.
DBA/fictitious business name registration. The doing business as (DBA) or fictitious business name registration happens with the appropriate state or local jurisdiction.
Zoning and land use permits. Local governments’ zoning laws may prohibit certain business activity in designated areas.
Building permit. If you plan on remodeling or building a commercial space, you'll need to get a building permit.
Sales tax license/sellers permit/resellers permit. This license/permit has many names, and those names vary by state. But it is required for the selling of almost all products and services.
Workers’ Comp Insurance. In most states, workers' compensation coverage is mandatory if you have at least one employee.
Payroll tax registration. If your business has one or more employees, your business likely needs to comply with a variety of payroll tax laws at the federal and local levels
Step 7: Maintain LLC compliance
A final important step after forming an LLC is to maintain good standing in your state’s records. Ensuring good standing helps preserve the limited liability that an LLC entity provides, expand into other states, and quickly obtain a certificate of good standing for lenders.

Here are some things to keep in mind as you maintain LLC compliance:

File an annual report: Most states require LLCs to file an annual report or statement. This allows states to track formed or foreign qualified LLCs. Certain states only require you to file every other year. States may also impose a state fee when statements are filed.
Pay franchise tax: Some states also have a franchise tax — a fee paid to the state for the privilege of operating an LLC in that state. The formula for calculating this tax varies by state but is typically based on business revenue or the number of shares and par value.
File Beneficial Ownership Information reports: Both newly established and existing businesses (corporations, limited liability companies, or certain other entities), unless exempt, must submit beneficial ownership information (BOI) to the U.S. Department of Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). You must also submit an updated filing if there are changes with the business owners, such as a new owner or an address change for an existing owner (in addition to business name and address changes).
The due dates for filing an annual report and paying franchise tax differ in each state. Some states connect the date to the anniversary of the LLC’s formation or qualification. Other states set a specific date for all LLC annual statements.

Learn more

When it comes to starting an LLC, there is a lot for small business owners to think about beyond the initial LLC filing. LLC owners should rightly ask, “I have my LLC, now what?”

Learn more about creating an LLC in a few simple steps and get trusted guidance from BizFilings to make sure the process and compliance with ongoing requirements are done right.

A limited liability company (LLC) is a popular structure for many startups and small businesses. To properly form an LLC, the founders must legally register their company with the state in which it’s being created. The details required to register an LLC often vary from one state to another, including the name and types of the LLC organizational documents that founders must complete and file to register their company.

In this article, we’ll cover formation documents, operating agreements, and other notable organizational documents you may encounter as you build your LLC. 

LLC formation documents
In every state in the U.S., an LLC—whether it’s a single-member LLC or multi-member LLC—must file some type of legal document to register its formation as a business entity. The name of the document depends on the state, but it will typically require some of the same key information from the company and its business owners. 

These details include:

The LLC name

Business purpose

Principal address

The name and physical address of the LLC’s registered agent, who is responsible for receiving any legal and tax correspondence related to the business

Note that after you have formed your LLC, you’ll typically need an Employer Identification Number (EIN). This can be obtained by filling out Form SS-4 with the Internal Revenue Services ( IRS). You’ll also need an EIN if you plan to open a business bank account.

LLC Articles of Organization
In the following states, the formation document that an LLC must file to create the legal entity is called the Articles of Organization: 

Alaska 

Arizona 

Arkansas

California

Colorado

District of Columbia 

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii

Illinois

Indiana

Kansas

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maryland

Michigan

Minnesota

Missouri

Montana

Nevada

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina

North Dakota

Ohio

Oklahoma

Oregon

Rhode Island

South Carolina

South Dakota

Tennessee

Vermont

Virginia

West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wyoming

Filing articles of organization
The process for filing your LLC’s articles of organization is relatively simple and similar in every state. The company typically has to fill out a form including its company name, business purpose, principal place of business , and other basic information. It then submits this form either physically or online and pays a fee to the relevant state agency. 

Determine the best LLC equity type for your company
Download our free guide
LLC Certificate of Formation
The primary formation document required to create an LLC is called the Certificate of Formation in the following states:

Alabama

Delaware

Maine

Mississippi

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

Texas 

Washington

LLC Certificate of Organization
The primary formation document required to create an LLC is called the Certificate of Organization is in the following states: 

Connecticut

Idaho

Iowa 

Massachusetts

Nebraska 

Pennsylvania 

Utah

Articles of Incorporation for corporations
If a company is forming as a corporation, rather than an LLC, it will file a Certificate of Incorporation (or in some states, Articles of Incorporation) to legally establish itself with the state. The information included in a Certificate of Incorporation is similar to what is provided in Articles of Organization or a Certificate of Formation, but since LLCs and corporations are different kinds of legal entities, they have different names for their organizational documents.

LLC operating agreement
Around the time when they submit their Articles of Organization or similar organizational document, many LLCs also draft their operating agreement. An operating agreement is not legally required in most states, but most LLCs choose to create one as a way to define the company’s governance and avoid future conflicts among members of the LLC or investors. 

The operating agreement typically includes more details than those found in the Articles of Organization or similar formation documents. This agreement includes additional information about ownership percentages, succession planning, and how the LLC plans to distribute any profits among its members. 

Other notable LLC documents
Over the course of its lifespan, an LLC may need to file several other types of documents with its Secretary of State, the IRS, or related government body. Again, the formal names of these documents can vary by state. Some of these include: 

Certificate of Amendment: Used to make amendments to an LLC’s existing Articles of Organization or equivalent

Certificate of Correction: Used to correct a mistake in existing Articles of Organization or equivalent

Certificate of Dissolution: Used to formally dissolve or terminate an LLC under state law

Certificate of Merger: Used to formally merge an LLC with another legal entity 

Conversion forms: Used to convert an LLC to a different business structure, such as a corporation or partnership

Buy-sell agreement: Used to transfer ownership of an LLC if and when existing members leave the business

Equity incentive plans: A written agreement that explains how the company shares ownership with employees and consultants

Tax forms: The Schedule K-1 Form and Form 1065 are two tax documents LLCs must use on an annual basis to break down each partner’s share of income, losses, deductions, and credits



The 3 Must-Have Documents for an LLC

Two of the most enticing things about an LLC is that it prevents business owners from being personally liable for things related to the business, and it provides pass-through tax status. It also has fewer formalities and requires less legal documentation.

If filing as an LLC is something you’re thinking about, you should make sure to have all your LLC legal documents completed and prepared in the right way. The three essential LLC formation documents are:

1) Articles of Organization

The Articles of Organization — also called Certificate of Organization — is the equivalent of the corporation’s Articles of Incorporation. Consider these the building blocks of your LLC.

The basics elements required in the Articles/Certificate of Organization include:

Your Business Name: Make sure that your name doesn’t pose any potential conflicts with another business name already registered in the state where you’re filing your LLC.
Business Purpose
Principal Place of Business
Registered Agent: This is the entity or individual who will receive official papers and legal documents on your behalf, including documents related to lawsuits. The registered agent has to be in the state where your LLC is registered, and must have a physical address.  
Management Structure: Meaning, does your LLC have a single manager, two or more managers, or are all members managers?
Duration of LLC: Some states require you to specify how long your LLC will operate. A few states set a statutory limit on the duration (usually a few decades). But you can extend your LLC for longer if it’s still in business when you hit the end of this period.
2) Operating Agreement

An Operating Agreement specifies the rights and duties of the Limited Liability Company members. It also states the distribution of income of the LLC to its members.

While it’s not required by law that you file an operating agreement to form your Limited Liability Company, you need to have this LLC legal document prepared to be compliant with the company’s corporate formalities.

What you include in your operating agreement will vary depending on your business, but operating agreements commonly include:

If there is more than one member, you need to describe the way key business decisions will be made
Members’ Percentages of Ownership
How Profits and Losses Will be Distributed
Voting Rights
What happens if an owner dies or wants to exit the business
How the LLC Can be Dissolved
All members must sign the operating agreement in order for it to be valid.

3) Employee Identification Number

All businesses, regardless of the structure, need an EIN (Employee Identification Number). Instead of your social security number, you should use your EIN on all your business-related documentation. You’ll also need your EIN to open a business bank account. To get an EIN, you or your attorney need to fill out IRS Form SS-4.

In addition to the documents above, you also need to file an annual/biennial report with the state where your LLC is registered.

So what’s the most effective way to file an LLC? Let’s be real, there are a million online services you can use to do this, but they use generic descriptions and agreements. And they probably don’t cost much less than using an attorney. So is it worth gambling on whether you’re forming the foundation of your business the right way?

Since your legal needs are just as unique as the brand you work so hard to build, work with an attorney who understands your vision so you’re set up for success.

What is an LLC?
How to start an LLC

A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a business structure that protects your personal assets in case your company gets sued. Your personal assets include belongings like your home, car, and personal bank accounts.

LLCs are formed at the state level, so the rules and costs vary by state.

That said, starting an LLC costs between $30 and $350. And in most states you can get an LLC online immediately, or within 2 weeks.

How to Start an LLC, Step-by-step
Here are the 5 steps to forming an LLC:

Choose an LLC Name
Select a Registered Agent
File Articles of Organization
Create an Operating Agreement
Get an EIN
To form your LLC yourself, select the free guide to your state below:

Alabama LLC
Alaska LLC
Arizona LLC
Arkansas LLC
California LLC
Colorado LLC
Connecticut LLC
Delaware LLC
Florida LLC
Georgia LLC
Hawaii LLC
Idaho LLC
Illinois LLC
Indiana LLC
Iowa LLC
Kansas LLC
Kentucky LLC
Louisiana LLC
Maine LLC
Maryland LLC
Massachusetts LLC
Michigan LLC
Minnesota LLC
Mississippi LLC
Missouri LLC
Montana LLC

Nebraska LLC
Nevada LLC
New Hampshire LLC
New Jersey LLC
New Mexico LLC
New York LLC
North Carolina LLC
North Dakota LLC
Ohio LLC
Oklahoma LLC
Oregon LLC
Pennsylvania LLC
Rhode Island LLC
South Carolina LLC
South Dakota LLC
Tennessee LLC
Texas LLC
Utah LLC
Vermont LLC
Virginia LLC
Washington LLC
Washington DC LLC
West Virginia LLC
Wisconsin LLC
Wyoming LLC

 
Or, if you want someone to take care of it for you, we recommend hiring Northwest Registered Agent.

Need to save time? Hire a company to form your LLC:
Northwest ($39 + state fee) or LegalZoom ($149 + state fee)

(We recommend Northwest. We've reviewed all the top companies in the industry. And Northwest is our #1 pick for prices, customer support, and address privacy. Check out Northwest vs LegalZoom to learn more.)

How much does it cost to start an LLC?
How long does it take to form an LLC?
Here are the steps to starting an LLC in all 50 states
1. Search your LLC Name
LLC names

The first step to starting your LLC is making sure your LLC name is available in your state.

You need to do this because two businesses in the same state can’t have the same name.

First, search your business name and compare it to existing businesses in your state.

You can make sure the LLC Name you want is unique from existing businesses using your state’s Business Records Search. (We provide links to your state’s Business Records Search, and instructions to use it in our step-by-step state guides linked in the drop-down above.)

Second, familiarize yourself with the naming rules in your state (so your LLC gets approved).

We explain both in more detail here: Guide for LLC Naming.

2. Choose a Registered Agent
Registered Agent

The next step is to choose a Registered Agent.

An LLC Registered Agent is a person or company who accepts legal documents and state notices on behalf of your Limited Liability Company.

Note: In some states, Registered Agents are also called “Resident Agent” or “Statutory Agent.

These terms all mean the same thing.

Who can be an LLC Registered Agent?
In most states, you have 3 options for who can be the Registered Agent for your LLC:

You
A friend or family member
A Registered Agent Service
The Registered Agent for your LLC must have a physical street address in the state where your LLC is located. PO Boxes aren’t allowed, except in Ohio.

And it’s important to know that the Registered Agent’s name and address will be listed on public records.

If you don’t have an address in your LLC’s state, or you want more privacy, you can hire a Registered Agent Service for your LLC.

We recommend Northwest Registered Agent
Our favorite feature about Northwest’s Registered Agent Service is they’ll let you use their office address throughout your LLC filing. This way, you can keep your address off public records.

They’ll also scan any mail sent to your LLC and upload it to your online account.

Northwest has excellent customer service, and they’re who we trust to be our own Registered Agent.

Special offer: Hire Northwest to form your LLC ($39 + state fee), and you'll get a free year of Registered Agent service.

(Why is Northwest the best? Read our Northwest Registered Agent review)

3. File LLC Articles of Organization
Articles of Organization

To start an LLC, you need to file LLC Formation paperwork with the state called the LLC Articles of Organization.

Note: In some states, the Articles of Organization is called a Certificate of Organization or a Certificate of Formation.

These terms all refer to the same thing: the LLC paperwork you file to form a Limited Liability Company.

Your LLC formation documents are filed with the Secretary of State (or similar government office, depending on your state).

What information is required for the LLC Articles of Organization?
The information required for your LLC Articles of Organization varies a bit by state.

That said, most LLC formation documents require:

Your LLC’s name
Your LLC’s business purpose
Your LLC’s main business address
Your Registered Agent’s name and physical address
Whether the LLC will be a Member-managed vs Manager-managed LLC
How long you’d like your LLC to exist
The signature from one or more LLC Organizer(s)
How long does it take to start an LLC?
How long it takes to start an LLC depends on where you form your LLC.

Some states process LLC Articles of Organization immediately if you file online. Other states take anywhere from a few days, to a few weeks.

And if you file by mail, you’ll need to add on mail turnaround times, too.

That said, many states allow you to speed up your LLC filing by paying an extra fee.

How much does it cost to file the LLC Articles of Organization?
There is a one-time fee to create your LLC, called the LLC filing fee.

And how much it costs varies by state. The cost is usually between $50 and $150, but some states charge more than $200.

If you want to file your Articles of Organization yourself, or read about your state’s specific filing fee, you can use our free, step-by-step LLC Formation Guides for every state (linked above).

Or, you can hire a company to do it for you.

Need to save time? Hire a company to form your LLC:
Northwest ($39 + state fee) or LegalZoom ($149 + state fee)

(Learn why Northwest is #1 in Northwest vs LegalZoom)

4. Create an LLC Operating Agreement
Operating Agreement

You can think of your LLC’s Operating Agreement as a “companion” document to the Articles of Organization.

The Articles of Organization creates your LLC, and the Operating Agreement shows who owns the LLC.

It also keeps a record of important information like your business entity structure, profit shares, business roles, and the business rules the LLC Members have agreed on.

Why do I need an Operating Agreement for my LLC?
Having a record of the LLC’s rules helps the LLC Members to resolve any business disagreements.

Also, some banks require an Operating Agreement when you open an LLC bank account.

And having an LLC Operating Agreement will be very helpful if you ever end up in court. Reason being, it helps prove that your LLC is being run properly.

That’s why we recommend that all LLCs have an Operating Agreement – including Single-Member LLCs.

Furthermore, an Operating Agreement for a Limited Liability Company is an “internal document“. Meaning, you don’t need to file it with any state agency or the IRS (Internal Revenue Service). Just keep a copy with your business records.

You can download a free template below.

Then, learn how to fill it out by watching our step-by-step LLC Operating Agreement video.

Download a free LLC Operating Agreement:
Member-managed: Google Doc | Word | PDF
Manager-managed: Google Doc | Word

(What's better? See Member-managed vs Manager-managed LLC)

5. Get an EIN for your LLC
The next step is to get an EIN Number for an LLC from the IRS.

Note: An EIN Number is also called a Federal Tax ID Number or Federal Employer Identification Number.

EIN Number for an LLC

An EIN Number is used to:

identify your LLC for tax purposes
open a business bank account
apply for business licenses and permits
How much does an EIN cost?
How long does it take to get an EIN?
How can I get an EIN?
US Citizens/US Residents: If you have an SSN or ITIN, you can apply for an EIN online. Follow these instructions: Apply for an EIN online.

Non-US Residents: You can’t get an EIN online, but you can still get one by fax or by mail. Follow these instructions: How to get an EIN without an SSN or ITIN.

What do I do after my LLC is approved?
After your LLC is approved, there are some additional steps.

Open an LLC business bank account
You’ll want to open a business bank account for your LLC.

This makes accounting and record-keeping much easier for your business income and business debts.

Having a separate business bank account also maintains your personal liability protection. And it does this by keeping your business assets and income separate from your personal assets and income.

Get business licenses and permits
Business License

Good news, most states don’t require a state general business license for a Limited Liability Company.

Local and Industry-specific Requirements
However, depending on where your LLC is located, you may need a local business license or permit for your business entity.

For example, if you want to start a daycare, you may need a business license from the city or county.

If your LLC will collect sales tax on taxable goods or services, you will likely also need a Seller’s Permit. It’s simply a permit that authorizes you to collect sales tax and pay it to the state.

And businesses in some industries are required to get federal, state, or local licenses that are specific to that industry (like a liquor license or commercial fishing license).

You can learn more in our state-by-state guides, linked above on this page.

File your LLC Annual Report
File and pay taxes
How to Start an LLC FAQs
What are the pros and cons of an LLC business entity?
Do LLCs pay taxes?
Where should I form my LLC?
Can you file an LLC yourself?
Can I start an LLC online?
What’s the difference between an LLC and a Corporation?
Can an LLC be an S-Corp?
What is the difference between a Sole Proprietorship and an LLC?
What’s a good name for an LLC?
Matt Horwitz
Matt Horwitz
Founder & Educator, LLC University®
Matt Horwitz is the leading expert on LLC education, and has been teaching for 15 years. He founded LLC University in 2010 after realizing people needed simple and actionable instructions to start an LLC. He's cited by Entrepreneur Magazine, Yahoo Finance, and the US Chamber of Commerce, and was featured by CNBC and InventRight.
 
Matt holds a Bachelor's Degree in business from Drexel University with a concentration in business law. He performs extensive research and analysis to convert state laws into simple instructions anyone can follow to form their LLC - all for free! Read more about Matt Horwitz and LLC University.
Share this page
X / Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Want our free email course?
Get simple LLC lessons sent right to your inbox.

Email address
Email address
Let's go

I'm a non-US resident
14 comments on “How to Start an LLC”
Disclaimer: Nothing on this page shall be interpreted as legal or tax advice. Rules and regulations vary by location. They also change over time and are specific to your situation. Furthermore, this comment section is provided so people can share their thoughts and experience. Please consult a licensed professional if you have legal or tax questions.


Jennifer Lee
February 22, 2025
Hi Matt,
Your website has been a great resource for me. My partners and I are looking to form a Wyoming LLC as a holding company for our real estate portfolio. We plan to purchase property in other Ohio, Texas and other states. We plan on hiring a property manager to manage the property(s). We plan on using the Member managed operating agreement for the holding company. Can you please advise us what type of documents we need to file for the states we plan to do business in and if we need to file any documents for NYC? Thank you very much.

Reply

Matt Horwitz
March 24, 2025
Hi Jennifer, that’s so great to hear! If you form a Wyoming LLC as the Parent LLC (aka holding company), then you’d simply form domestic LLCs in each of the states where you have, or are going to buy, property. Then in the Child LLCs’ Operating Agreements, you’d make the 100% owner the Wyoming LLC. And if the states have Members listed on the Articles of Organization (or similar form), the Wyoming LLC would also be listed there.

Having said that, I know that Ohio doesn’t require Members to be listed on the Articles of Organization. And in Texas, on the Certificate of Formation, you can list your Wyoming LLC as the Member (and Manager), or say that the LLC is Manager-managed and list you and your partners. (Or say the LLC is Manager-managed and list the Wyoming LLC). There’s many ways to document it in Texas lol.

And if you’re in New York, but not investing there or doing business there, you wouldn’t need to file anything in New York. Hope that helps.

Reply

Rama
January 28, 2025
Dear Matt,
Your website is VERY helpful. The template for the operating agreement was perfect. Much APPRECIATE your work and Many Thanks! Rama

Reply

Matt Horwitz
March 23, 2025
Hi Rama, so great to hear! You’re very welcome :) And thank you!

Reply

Michael
January 21, 2025
Hi Matt,
I am intending to open and operate a gym in Oregon in which I am the primary investor/owner and assume I must have an Oregon-specific LLC. However, this Oregon-based gym will be one of several gyms my NH-based business partner and I are setting up as a multi-state franchising business. Would you recommend that we start by setting up two separate LLCs? One that encompasses the primary brand entity (with multiple future franchisees in mind), and one that encompasses the Oregon-based flagship location? The intent is to allow my partner and I to share ownership, revenue and liabilities of the brand, but to operate franchise locations independently (except for fees to our franchising business).

Reply

Matt Horwitz
March 23, 2025
Hi Michael, congrats. And great questions. Honestly, even if I answered your initial questions, I’d have like 8 follow-up questions for you lol. I’d actually recommend speaking with a few franchise attonreys. There are a lot of ways to “slice this pie”. But yes, I would certainly be splitting up IP rights, branding, etc. into one entity. And using a different entity(ies) for actual locations/real estate. And possibly even other entities for other accepts of operations. However, which entity owns which, whether or not there’s a holding company (is the holding company owned by Trusts), inter-company licensing agreements and more; hence, the recommendation to get into the weeds with a good franchise attorney or two. Hope that helps, and thanks for your understanding.

Reply

Lawrence
December 9, 2024
Hi Matt,

My partner and I are looking to form a Wymoing LLC as a holding company for our real estate portfolio and the create child LLCs for all the properties we end up purchasing as well as a property management company. We plan on using the Member managed operating agreement for the holding company. Do you sugest we use the manager-managed operating agreements for all of the child LLCs? Our goal would be to have the same agreements for each Child LLC with just a name change based on the property for each child LLC.

Reply

Matt Horwitz
February 16, 2025
Hi Lawrence, excellent idea. And yes, best and easiest thing to do is have the child LLCs be Manager-managed (by you and/or your partner).

Reply

Marie
October 9, 2024
Thanks for your advice.

Is the process of forming a nonprofit LLC in IL different from creating a regular LLC?
Thank you in advance for your reply.

Reply

Matt Horwitz
February 14, 2025
Hi Marie, yes, it is. Additionally, you can’t form a non-profit LLC unless it’s 100% owned by a non-profit entity.

Reply

Gabriel
September 30, 2024
LLC University is absolutely the best resource I’ve found in my LLC journey.
Thanks a lot for your work, Matt!

Reply

Matt Horwitz
February 14, 2025
Thanks so much Gabriel! We appreciate the kind words. You’re very welcome :)

Reply

Yohannes
August 30, 2024
Dear Matt,

I recently came across your website while researching how to open an LLC, and I wanted to reach out to express my gratitude. Your site provided a wealth of valuable information, and it has been incredibly helpful as I navigate the process of starting my consulting firm.

I was particularly surprised to learn about California’s annual $800 franchise fee—by far the highest I’ve encountered among the states I’ve researched. It’s shocking that none of the professionals I spoke to during my LLC formation process mentioned this significant cost.

I’m still undecided on where to establish my consulting firm, but I wanted to take a moment to thank you for highlighting such crucial details. Your website has been a great resource, and I appreciate the thorough and clear information you provide.

Thank you again for the work you do to help entrepreneurs like me make informed decisions.

Best regards,
Yohannes

Reply

Matt Horwitz
September 3, 2024
Hi Yohannes, thank you so much! And you’re very welcome. I’m so glad to hear we could help :) And yes, California is the most notorious (and most expensive) state when it comes to LLC annual fees. However, if you’re a California resident (that isn’t going to move out of CA soon), it’s best to just “bite the bullet” and form the LLC in your home state. If you form an LLC in another state, you’ll need to register that out-of-state LLC as a Foreign LLC in California. This means you need to maintain 2 LLC filings (which includes maintaining a Registered Agent in each state and filing an Annual Report in each state; assuming both states have Annual Reports). And while some states are more relaxed on Foreign LLC registrations (aka foreign qualifications), California is among the most strict and enforcing its rules. Sorry for the bum news, but hope it’s helpful!


What is an LLC?
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a business entity that combines characteristics of both corporations and partnerships. Specifically, an LLC has the same limited liability protections afforded to corporations and, by default, the LLC is taxed as a partnership.

When someone forms an LLC, they are essentially creating an entity separate from themselves. Should this separate entity (the LLC) be sued, it is the entity, not the individual who created the entity, that is being sued (this is what it means to have limited liability). The advantage to limited liability is that, with few exceptions, should the LLC be sued, the LLC’s assets are at stake, not the individual’s.

A corporation, by default, is first taxed on its net income, then taxed again at a personal level when that net income is distributed to an owner. An LLC, like a partnership, is not taxed. The profits of an LLC are passed to the owners (called members) and taxed as personal income. This is referred to as pass-through taxation and only changes if the LLC elects to be taxed as an S-corporation or C-corporation. Limited liability and pass-through taxation are the two main defining characteristics of the LLC.

How to Start an LLC in Any State
An LLC is formed at the state level by filing a single form called the Articles of Organization, called the Certificate of Formation or Certificate of Organization in some states. The Articles of Organization are filed with the state agency in charge of business formations, usually that state’s Secretary of State.

No matter what your state calls the LLC creation form or the agency you file with, starting an LLC is a simple process. Here’s how it works.

LLC Name
1. Name your LLC
Before you can form an LLC, you’ll need to decide on your company name—and make sure it’s not already taken. Fortunately, every state has an online database where you can search for available names. When choosing a name, you’ll also need to avoid restricted words or phrases and include a business entity identifier, such as “L.L.C.,” “LLC,” or “Limited Liability Company.”

Check if your company name is available with a Free Business Name Search.

Registered Agent
2. Designate a Registered Agent
In order for a state to grant you the privilege to form and establish a business (and begin the process of separating your personal identity with your LLC’s separate and distinct identity), the state wants to be sure that your business can be contacted by anyone regarding importance communications, such as legal notices or service of process. To do that, you will need to identify and list your registered agent and office in your formation paperwork. Because of the time sensitive nature of several communications delivered to a registered agent, it is important that you select a registered agent whom you can trust to get you vital communications in a prompt and timely manner.

Your registered agent must be regularly available to accept your LLC’s state and legal mail at a physical location in the state (a registered office). This means that if you opt to be your own registered agent, your name and home or office address will become part of your LLC’s permanent public record. Hiring a registered agent service can help you keep your personal information more private.

Find everything you need to know about Registered Agent Service for your LLC.

Articles of Organization
3. Submit LLC Articles of Organization
Now that you’ve made the big decisions, it’s time to file the LLC state form, typically called “Articles of Organization.” In most states, LLC formation documents are processed by the Secretary of State. Requirements vary, but at minimum, you’ll generally need to include your company name, your registered agent, and a signature.

If you’re looking to form your LLC yourself, we have pages on forming an LLC in every state that include that state’s Articles of Organization and free tools for filling out, downloading, and printing the articles you’ll need to file.

Simply skip down to our State LLC Requirements search and select your state.

EIN Tax ID
4. Get an EIN
After starting an LLC, you’ll likely need a federal tax ID from the IRS. This Federal Employer Identification Number (known as a FEIN or EIN) is much like a social security number for your LLC. Every LLC that will pay taxes or hire employees needs an EIN. Also, an EIN is another indicator courts will look to when determining whether a distinct LLC identity exists separately from yourself.

Apply for an EIN with the IRS by filing Form SS-4. Applying online on the IRS website typically takes just a few minutes.

Everything you need to know about getting an EIN.

LLC Operating Agreement
5. Write an LLC Operating Agreement
Your operating agreement is the governing document of your LLC. How the LLC distributes its profits and losses, who owns what percentage of the company, how management structure is defined, everything—it’s all in the operating agreement. Your operating agreement is an internal document, so you don’t need to file it with any state agency. However, it’s not something you want to be operating an LLC without.

Whether you’re operating as a single-member LLC, multi-member LLC, or manager-managed LLC, we have free templates and tools you need for creating and downloading your LLC operating agreement:

Single-Member LLC Operating Agreement
Multi-Member LLC Operating Agreement
Manager-Managed LLC Operating Agreement
 


6. Open a Bank Account
To maintain your new LLC’s limited liability, you’ll need to keep your personal assets separate from business assets—so you’ll want to open a business bank account. Again, this is another factor courts will look at to determine whether to respect your LLC’s separate identity, or whether to disregard and allow liability to attach to you (and your assets) personally. The more you can show a separation between yourself and your LLC, the better!

Opening an account typically requires a few key business documents: your Articles of Organization, operating agreement and EIN. Depending on the bank—and how clearly powers are defined in your articles and agreement—you may also need an LLC resolution to open a bank account.

Make sure you have everything you need. We offer a free LLC resolution to open an LLC Bank Account.


7. Fund the LLC
Your business bank account doesn’t do much good empty—your new LLC needs to be funded with capital contributions. Let’s say your business needs $10,000 to start. Each member would pony up a portion of that $10K from their personal money or assets to put into the new business account. In exchange, members receive a proportionate percentage of membership interest. You can change the percentages at any time if people want to contribute more later on.

Need to document all this money changing hands? We offer free LLC Forms, including capital contribution agreements and membership certificates.


8. File State Reports & Taxes
After you form an LLC, your state may require you to update or confirm your company information with a business renewal or report, such as an annual or biennial report. Occasionally, these renewals or reports are combined with other state requirements. For instance, Arkansas pairs its annual report with an annual franchise tax. Some states, like Washington and Nevada also require LLCs to file an initial report. This is a report due upon or shortly after starting your business. And of course, states have their own LLC tax requirements, from informational filings to franchise taxes.

Learn about Business Renewals & Reports.

Why Have a Registered Agent Form Your LLC?
Professionals hire registered agent services like Northwest Registered Agent to form their LLCs — but why?

Logistics
Pros want their LLCs formed fast and they don’t want to pay extra for speed and competence. As a registered agent, we have offices in every state. It’s our job to know the fastest filing methods in every state. We’re on a first name basis with many of the people who work in every state’s Corporation Division. When you hire us to form your LLC, you inherently leverage our operational logistics for fast, professional service.

Privacy
As your registered agent, our registered office is listed on your LLC’s formation documents. We never sell your data. We don’t list your personal information on filings if we don’t have to. It’s all part of our commitment to Privacy by Default® and achieving a level of privacy you can’t get when you file yourself or hire a standard filing service.

Free Mail Forwarding & Business Address
As part of our standard service, we include limited digital mail forwarding in every state. Plus, you can list our address as your business address. Combining business address and mail forwarding ensures an increased level of security and service unmatched in the LLC formation industry.

Local Expertise
Knowing the ins and outs of every state doesn’t just help us provide faster, better service—it also helps you. We’re invested in a national team of Corporate Guides®, more than 200 local business experts you can call or email to answer questions about your LLC.

More than an LLC
Starting a business goes beyond filing paperwork with the state. If you’re serious about reaching clients and customers, you need a domain name, a website, a business phone number, business email addresses, and SSL Security. You can piece those services together with different companies, or you can hand it off to us. At Northwest, we’ll stand up your entire Business Identity instantly.

 

How Our LLC Formation Service Works
There are do-it-yourselfers, and there are people who need (or just want) a helping hand. We have helpful options for starting your LLC no matter who you are.

Northwest LLC Formation
Free Account
Our free account gives you the state forms and tools you’ll need to start your LLC on your own. And, if you decide you want to hire Northwest instead, you can simply add our services inside your account.

GET A FREE ACCOUNT
LLC Formation Service
We can start your LLC for $39 plus state fees. This includes a full year of registered agent service, free limited mail forwarding, operating agreement, and a client account loaded with free forms and tools.

HIRE US
Limited Liability Company (LLC) FAQs
What is required to keep an LLC up and running?
Who are the members and managers of an LLC?
What's the best state for an LLC formation?
The best state for an LLC formation is almost always the state where you live, particularly if you’re doing business in your home state.

If you’re doing things on the internet or using the company as a holding company for assets, forming an LLC in a tax-friendly state like South Dakota, Wyoming, Nevada, Montana, or Delaware might bring some benefits, but we’d recommend consulting with a tax professional before going that route.

Forming a company in a tax-free state like Wyoming usually won’t be of benefit to you if you live in a normal taxing state like New Mexico or anywhere with a normal tax burden. Living in a place like California, New York, New Jersey, or any location with high fees and high taxes, can present some nice options of forming an LLC out of state and trying to run some of the income through it that way. Electing the LLC as a C corporation keeps the money from getting down onto you personally where you might need to pay a high personal income tax rate in a highly taxed state.

At the end of the day, it’s always simplest and sometimes cheapest, in the long run, to incorporate or form an LLC in your home state. We’ll be glad to help you no matter what you decide.

Step 1. Name your LLC
LLCs are legal entities, so rules apply when naming one.

Your name has to be unique to avoid confusion with an existing registered company.
It must contain the words LLC or limited liability company in the name, and you can’t use financial words such as insurance, trust, bank, and inc. 
Rules vary from state to state, as they do with every step of starting a a limited liability company. You’ll find your state’s laws on its website.

LLC vs. business name: What's the difference?
Your LLC and business name can be the same or different; it’s up to you. The reason for the choice is branding and marketing.

Your LLC’s name is your business’s registered legal structure, and you must include LLC when filing tax returns, business bank accounts, loan applications, and lawsuits.

If using LLC in your name suits your business, you don’t need a separate business name. Plus, having LLC in your name instills trust in potential customers, as it shows you’re a legitimate business. 

Sometimes a limited liability name or the abbreviation LLC doesn’t suit a company’s branding and marketing campaigns, and a catchy business name that’s engaging and memorable is the better way to go.

How to get a business name
You can get a business name by applying for a DBA (doing business as) at the same time as registering your LLC name with your state and local government. You will slo need to do a business entity search in order to make sure the exact business name has not been registered.

Reserve your LLC name while filing the documents
When you find the perfect business name but aren’t ready to make an LLC, you can reserve it by filing with your secretary of state’s office. Reservation requirements and duration vary by state, ranging anywhere from 30 to 120 days. 

Step 2. Select your state
You can choose to register/form your LLC in any U.S. state, regardless of your location. 

Your home state is the most convenient choice in most circumstances. Because local solicitors and lawyers are familiar with their home state laws regarding LLC formation and operating guidelines, it’s helpful to have government offices within reach.

LLC business owners choose to register out-of-state due to lower set up, running costs, self-employment tax, and sales tax. 

When registering your preferred business type in a state other than your own, you’re required to have a physical address to receive official mail. You can appoint a registered agent’s office to act on your behalf. 

All 50 states have websites dedicated to how to start and run an LLC. 

Many larger and different types of LLCs form businesses across multiple states and use a national registered agent to receive official mail on their behalf. 

Make sure you’re aware of each state’s requirements for establishing and maintaining an LLC.

Popular registration states
Several states could be a better choice when forming an LLC out of state. One is Delaware.

Delaware is by far the most popular choice for those forming an LLC out of their home state and prides itself on having a business-friendly reputation. The reason being is that Delaware doesn’t impose a tax on out-of-state income, meaning you won’t pay tax on out-of-state sales. 

And to entice start-up LLCs, filing fees and franchise taxes are very low compared to most other states.

Don't stop with your state
Registering your name in one state doesn’t mean it will be available in another, nor does it stop another business in a neighboring state from using it.

If you are currently doing business in a single state but might expand in the future, securing your LLC in other states could be a wise move.

You can secure your business name in all 50 states and protect your brand nationwide by trademarking it using our trademark registration service.

Step 3. File articles of organization
The first step towards registering your business is to file an article of organization form with your state. Often states use different terminology, such as a certificate of formation or a certificate of organization. 

You can download the articles of organization form for free from your state website. Filing fees are state-dependent, ranging anywhere from $50 to $800. General costs differ and you can check them out per state in this LLC cost post.

LLC formation times vary by state but once approved, you’ll receive a state certificate of organization proving your LLC’s existence as a legal entity within your state. And that’s great news because you can then do business! 

Once you begin doing business, you’re required to pay yearly limited liability fees to your state. This is also known as Annual Registration Fees, Annual Certificates, Annual Reports, or Franchise Tax Reports.  

Fees are unavoidable and required to keep your business compliant with your state, regardless of your LLC’s activity or profit.  

Step 4. Choose a registered agent
A question most potential LLC owners ask is, “Can I set up an LLC on my own?” Yes, but regardless of your LLC’s location, you need a registered agent and a registered office because of due process. 

A registered agent is an individual who will receive legal and other documents on behalf of your business, such as subpoenas, regulatory and tax notices, and correspondence.  

In most states, if someone wants to sue you, the court cannot proceed until it has served you. And for that, you need a registered address and be open during regular business hours and available to the public.

Depending on your state laws, you could nominate yourself or appoint your business to act as its own registered agent.

If you want to hire a registered agent for your LLC and reduce your paperwork, finding one isn’t difficult. Still, sourcing a legitimate one at a reasonable price can be. 

Check with your secretary of state’s office and ask for a recommendation, or, if you want to go the simpler route, register your LLC here at Tailor Brands using our LLC maker!

Step 5. Create an LLC operating agreement
An LLC operating agreement records your LLC’s setup, organizational structure, daily duties, and general rules. 

Most states don’t require an LLC to create an operating agreement. But if you’re looking for investors or end up in court because of internal disagreements between partners (it happens), you’ll need one. 

An operating agreement covers essential points, such as each member’s responsibilities, profit, and loss allocation, proceedings when a member wants to leave or sell their share, and more.

Step 6. Apply for an EIN
An Employer Identification Number (EIN), also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number, is used to identify a business entity. It’s a 9-digit number assigned by the IRS to identify taxpayers who are required to file business tax returns. 

There are 3 ways you can apply for an EIN:

The preferred method when applying for an EIN is online. Be aware that the online application is available Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Eastern time. Once the application is completed, an EIN number will be issued immediately. 

There is also the option to mail or fax in the completed Form SS-4 to the IRS address listed on the Instructions for Form SS-4 PDF or get the fax number at “Where to File Your Taxes” (for Form SS-4). You’ll receive your EIN in the mail in approximately 4 weeks if done by mail or within 4 business days if done by fax.

Step 7. Comply with tax requirements
Death and taxes, the 2 things in life we can’t avoid. 

To operate and run daily business activities, you must first get and file any licenses and permits with the state and local agencies, then pay your taxes. 

Your state determines your tax filing, license, and permit requirements. You’ll find what you need on the sba.gov website or by contacting your secretary of state’s office.

Tax requirements
From Alabama to Wyoming and the 48 states in between, the rules of LLC reporting and tax filing requirements differ. 

That said, most states require an LLC to file an annual report and pay an annual tax or fee. And all impose penalties for failing to file a yearly report or paying taxes, and they aren’t cheap.

I recommend you research your state’s tax rules before moving on to step 7, and if you don’t understand them, hire a tax accountant who can help.


How to Get an LLC
A step-by-step guide to establishing your LLC

By Erin Gobler Updated February 27, 2024
Fact checked by Rebecca McClay
A bike shop owner shifts the front wheel of a display bicycle that is suspended from the ceiling of a narrow store overflowing with new bicycles.
Superb Images / Getty Images
7 Reasons You Haven’t Received Your Tax Refund

Close
When you decide to start a business, one of the most important steps is deciding what business structure to use and establishing your business. An LLC—short for limited liability company—is one of the most popular business structures, thanks to its ease of formation and maintenance, its pass-through taxation and the liability protections it provides to business owners."
1

Getting an LLC can be a quick and affordable process, depending on whether you do it yourself or enlist the help of a third party. Learn how to set up an LLC, the pros and cons of doing so, the costs associated with LLCs, and more.

Key Takeaways
To start an LLC, you’ll need to choose a business name and designate a registered agent. 
You will also need to file articles of organization and, optionally, create an operating agreement.
The benefits of LLCs include pass-through taxation and limited liability for the owner, 
One drawback is the one-time and annual filing costs.
Alternative business types include sole proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations.
How to Start an LLC
Are you considering forming an LLC? Here’s a step-by-step guide:

Choose your business name: Before establishing your LLC, it’s important to choose a name for your business and make sure it isn’t taken. You’ll have to provide this name on your articles of organization.
Designate a registered agent: Each LLC is required to have a registered agent, who serves as the point of contact for your business, and resides in the state in which your LLC is formed. In many cases, the registered agent is the business owner, but it can also be someone else.
Complete and file articles of organization: The articles of organization are the document that establishes your LLC. In most cases, you can complete and file this form on your state’s official website.
Create an operating agreement: Depending on where you live, you may or may not need an operating agreement to establish an LLC. You may not be required to file your operating agreement with the state.
2
Keep your business in good standing: Once you’ve established your LLC, your work isn’t done. In most states, you’re required to file an annual report to maintain your LLC.
Pros & Cons of Forming an LLC
An LLC protects owners from personal liability. Without an LLC, you and your business are considered one entity. If your business is liable for something, so are you as the business owner. However, the LLC creates a separation between you and your business. In other words, if your business is subject to a lawsuit or other legal trouble, you may be protected.

Warning
There are situations where the legal separation of an LLC doesn’t protect you as the business owner. For example, if you personally guarantee your business’s debts—which is sometimes required for new businesses—then you can be held just as liable for them as your business is. Additionally, if you’re personally guilty of any sort of negligence or wrongdoing, then you can be held personally liable.

Another important advantage of an LLC is the pass-through taxation. An LLC isn't subject to corporate taxes. Instead, all profits and losses are passed along to the owners. Your business profits are only taxed once.

A final key benefit is that, in most states, LLCs are relatively easy and affordable to establish and maintain. In many cases, forming an LLC could be as simple as completing an online form. And though all states charge a fee to establish your LLC, fees can be as low as $50, and some states allow you to renew each year for free.
3

That being said, having an LLC isn’t without its negatives. Not every state makes it affordable to set up and annually renew your LLC. For example, California requires that all LLCs pay an annual tax of at least $800. And if your business income exceeds $250,000, you’ll pay an additional fee ranging from $900 to $11,790, depending on your income.
4

What You Need to Form an LLC
An LLC is a relatively simple business structure, and as a result, there’s relatively little documentation needed to start one. Here’s what you’ll need to form your LLC.

Tip
An LLC filing service can handle this for you, for a fee. Here's our rundown of the Best LLC Services.

Articles of Organization
Your articles of organization is a form that you file to create your LLC. This form includes basic information about your business, including the name of the business, the name and contact information of the registered agent, the location of your business, and the name and address of each organizer of the business. In most states, you can complete and file this form online.

Operating Agreement
Depending on your state, you may be required to create an operating agreement for your business. Even if your state doesn’t require an operating agreement, it’s still advisable to have one.

An operating agreement is a legal document governing your business. It dictates factors such as your business structure and how ownership and profits are divided. It states how decisions will be made within the business and lays out the rights and responsibilities of each member.
5

Other Documents
The articles of incorporation and operating agreement are the only documents likely to be required to form your LLC, but there are other documents that may be helpful in establishing your business or that may be required down the road. Here are a few examples:

Name reservation application: Some states allow you to reserve your business name before registering your LLC. Name reservations are generally only good for a certain number of days, such as 90 or 120, and require a fee.
6
EIN: An employer identification number (EIN) is your business’s tax number. While an EIN is only required if you have employees or are required to complete certain tax forms, it’s best to have one in all situations rather than use your Social Security number.
7
Business license: Depending on where your business is located, you may need certain business licenses and permits, including a seller’s permit, general business license, or DBA (short for “doing business as”). 
Tip
Each state has its own regulations and requirements for licensing. Consult the government entity that regulates business in your state or use your state’s online resources to determine what you’re required to have.

Annual report: Many states require LLCs to file an annual report with the appropriate government agency. These annual reports require an owner to share basic information about the business and any changes in the business’s structure or ownership.
Costs of LLCs
Establishing and running an LLC requires some expenditure, but it doesn’t necessarily have to be expensive. Your total costs will vary depending on where you live and whether you hire a third party to help you with your LLC.

Here are some of the costs associated with forming and maintaining the status of an LLC:
3

Filing fee: Each state charges a one-time fee to file your LLC articles of organization and establish your LLC. This fee ranges from just $50 in some states to $300 or more in others. The average LLC filing fee is $129.
Initial report: California and Nevada are the only states that require you to file an initial report when you establish your LLC. California’s fee is $20 and Nevada’s is $150.
Annual report: Almost every state requires you to file an annual report each year to keep your LLC in good standing. The average annual report fee is $104, though in some states it’s as low as $0.
Aside from the required fees, you may also incur some additional costs if you hire a third party to help you establish and maintain your LLC. For example, you might pay an upfront fee to have your articles of organization and operating agreement drafted and filed. You might also pay annual fees for a registered agent or annual report filing.

Finally, there are other costs associated with starting and maintaining your business that aren’t necessarily associated directly with the LLC. These costs could include business licenses, a DBA, and more, all of which will vary by state.

Best LLC Filing Services
Company	Basic Service Cost	No. of Plans	Expedited Filing Fee
Bizee	$0 plus state fees	3 plus add-ons	$50
ZenBusiness	$0 plus state fees	3 plus add-ons	$79
Swyft Filings	$0 plus state fees	3 plus add-ons	Not disclosed
Northwest Registered Agent	$225 plus state fees	1 plus add-ons	$0
LegalZoom	$0 plus state fees	3 plus add-ons	$99
Rocket Lawyer	$140 plus state fees	2 plus add-ons	$85
IncAuthority	$0 plus state fees	3 plus add-ons	$49
Tailor Brands	$0 plus state fees	3 plus add-ons	$49
Alternative Business Types
An LLC is just one business structure you can choose. The right type of business structure for you depends on the type and size of your business and your unique needs. Here are some alternative business types to consider.

Sole proprietorship: A sole proprietorship is the most basic type of business. In fact, you automatically have one if you don’t register as another business type. This type of business enjoys the pass-through taxation of an LLC, but without the protection from personal liability.
Partnership: A partnership is a business that’s owned by two or more people. Partnerships can come in different forms, including limited partnership, in which all but one partner have limited liability, and a limited liability partnership, in which all partners have limited liability, similar to an LLC.
Corporation: A corporation is a business that’s entirely separate from its owners for legal purposes. Owners enjoy the limited liability of an LLC, but profits are taxed at the corporate level before they’re passed along to owners and/or shareholders.
What Are the Disadvantages of Starting an LLC?
The biggest disadvantage of starting an LLC is the cost. Unlike a sole proprietorship, an LLC isn’t free to establish or maintain, and the expenses can be quite high in some states.

How Long Does It Take to Get Approved for an LLC?
How long it takes to form an LLC depends on where you file. The approval time can be as short as a few days to as long as a month or more, depending on the state and whether you pay extra for expedited filing.

Is It Hard to Get Approved for an LLC?
In most cases, it’s quite easy to get approved for an LLC. There’s generally only one document required—or two, in some states—which can be filed online with your state. However, there are also steps required to maintain your LLC status, so it’s important to research your state’s rules. 

What Is the Cheapest Way to Start an LLC?
The cheapest way to start an LLC, in most cases, is by filing the paperwork yourself directly with your state. Most states have a relatively simple process required to form an LLC, which means you won’t necessarily need the help of a third party. However, if you have a more complex business situation or want the help of a seasoned professional, you may want to pay for an LLC filing service.

What Are the Benefits of Owning an LLC?
The biggest benefits of an LLC over other business types are the pass-through taxation and the limited liability for owners/members. An LLC is the only single-member business structure that offers this combination of benefits.

Sponsored
Maximize Your Retirement Income
Taking a strategic approach to investing can help you maximize your retirement income. Vanguard Personal Advisor® will work with you to build a customized financial plan that aligns with your goals. You’ll also benefit from innovative service at a low cost, and ongoing access to advisors. Learn more about how you can access personal financial advice and start the conversation.


What is an LLC? Definition and steps on how to form an LLC
By: Dave Griswold
A limited liability company (LLC) is a popular choice among small business owners for the liability protection, management flexibility, and tax advantages. Set your business up for success by understanding the benefits and limitations of an LLC, how to start an LLC, where to form your LLC, and other key topics.

This article covers:

What is an LLC?
Benefits of forming an LLC
LLC considerations
How to create an LLC: Step-by-step guide
LLC versus other entity types
LLC state guides
LLC resource center
FAQs
Easily form your LLC with BizFilings

Get Started
Get Started
What is an LLC?
A limited liability company (LLC) is a business structure that offers limited liability protection and pass-through taxation. Limited liability is where the losses a business may incur are limited to the amount invested in that business. Since the LLC legally exists as a separate entity from its owners, owners cannot typically be held personally responsible for the LLC’s debts and obligations.

The pass-through taxation of an LLC means that business income is not taxed at the entity level. Instead, any LLC income or loss as shown on its return is passed through to the owner(s). The owners, also called members, must then report the income or loss on their personal tax returns and pay any necessary tax.

If the LLC has a single owner, the LLC can be treated as a “disregarded entity”. In this scenario, a tax return does not have to be filed for the LLC, only for the business owner.  

If the LLC has more than one owner, an information tax return for the LLC must be completed in addition to the individual tax returns of the business owners.

what is a limited liability company
Watch Video
Benefits of forming an LLC
The benefits of creating an LLC — as opposed to operating your business as a sole proprietorship, general partnership, or corporation - typically outweigh any perceived disadvantages.

Limited liability: Members (term used to describe LLC owners) are shielded from personal liability for acts of the LLC and its other members. Creditors cannot pursue the personal assets (house, savings accounts, etc.) of the owners to pay business debts. With a sole proprietorship or general partnership, where this is no legal distinction between the business and the owners, creditors and other parties can go after the personal assets of the owners in order to satisfy the business’ debts.

Note: It is possible for an LLC (as well as a corporation) to lose its limited liability. This is known as “piercing the veil”. For more information, see How to avoid piercing the corporate veil.

Related: Single-member LLC vs. sole proprietorship, LLC vs. partnership

Flexible membership: LLC members (owners) can be individuals, partnerships, trusts, or corporations, and there is no limit on the number of members. S corporations (which is a corporation that has elected to be taxed as a pass-through entity under Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code) are much more restricted in who can be a shareholder, and there is a maximum limit on the number of shareholders.

Related: LLC vs. S corporation

Management structure: LLC members (owners) can manage the LLC or elect a management group to do so. When an LLC is managed by members (a “member-managed” management structure), the owners oversee daily business operations. When managed by appointed managers (a “manager-managed” management structure), the LLC resembles a corporation, where business management is the responsibility of the directors and officers rather than the owners (shareholders).

Pass-through taxation: LLCs typically do not pay taxes at the business entity level. Any business income or loss is "passed-through" to owners and reported on their personal income tax returns. Any tax due is paid at the individual level. Corporations that cannot or choose not to be taxed as an S corporation are taxed at the business entity level and their shareholders are taxed on the income distributed to them. (This type of corporation, which is the default when you incorporate, is known as a C corporation because it is taxed under IRS Subchapter C of the IRC.)

Related: LLC vs. Inc (corporation)

Heightened credibility: Starting an LLC may help a new business establish credibility more than if the business is operated as a sole proprietorship or partnership.

Limited compliance requirements: LLCs face fewer state-imposed compliance requirements and ongoing formalities than corporations (whether taxed as S corporations or C corporations).
LLC considerations
There may be several perceived disadvantages to choosing an LLC as your business structure. (But in many cases, the advantages outweigh the drawbacks.)

Cost: An LLC usually costs more to form and maintain than a sole proprietorship or general partnership. States charge an initial formation fee. Many states also impose ongoing fees, such as annual report and/or franchise tax fees. Check with your Secretary of State's office.

Compliance obligations. An LLC (as well as an S or C corporation) has ongoing compliance obligations. These can include state obligations, such as maintaining a registered agent and filing an annual report. Federal obligations may include having to keep up-to-date beneficial ownership information with the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN).

Transferable ownership. Ownership in an LLC is often harder to transfer than with a corporation. With corporations, shares of stock can be sold by the corporation to increase ownership and, unless there is a shareholder agreement to the contrary, the shareholders can sell their shares to someone else. Typically, with LLCs, unless the members agree otherwise, all members must approve adding new members or altering the ownership percentages of existing members.

How to create an LLC: A step-by-step guide
LLCs are generally easier to form than a corporation, but there are some administrative and compliance tasks to be done. Although requirements can vary by state, these are the basic steps for setting up an LLC.

Step 1: Choose a state in which to form your LLC
You can choose to create an LLC in any state — even if the LLC won’t be doing any business there.

However, most LLC owners choose to form an LLC in the state in which they plan to do business — which, in many cases, is the state they live in. One reason is that if the LLC is formed in a state where it is not doing business, the LLC will also have to register as a foreign LLC (aka foreign qualify) to do business in the state where it is doing business, which can increase formation and administrative costs.

It’s important to note that formation fees, annual report fees, taxation, and LLC laws can vary significantly from state to state, making some states more advantageous for certain small business owners.

Related: Why incorporate in Delaware, Nevada, or Wyoming?, How to select a state for LLC formation.

Step 2: Choose a business name for your LLC
In order to form an LLC, you’ll have to choose a business name that is “distinguishable on the record”. That means the name is not already on the Secretary of State’s records as being the name of another domestic or qualified LLC or other business entity. This is important to know since many sole proprietors already operating under a registered “doing business as” (DBA) name or trade name may want to use their DBA name as their legal business name when they decide to set themselves up as an LLC.

To check the availability of the business name you want for your LLC, whether it’s registered as your DBA name or not, you should conduct an LLC name search on your formation state’s website and see whether your desired name is already in use. If you’re not ready to file your LLC formation document, it is a good idea to reserve the name. For a small fee, states will allow you to reserve a business name for a short period of time.

It’s also a good idea to conduct a trademark search of the name you want to use in order to avoid intellectual property infringement.

Step 3: Choose a registered agent
In starting an LLC, or registering an existing LLC to transact business in a foreign state, you are required to have a registered agent in the state of formation (or qualification).

A registered agent, also known as an agent for service of process, receives important legal notices and tax documents on behalf of a business registered with the state. These include important legal documents, notices, and communications mailed by the Secretary of State (such as annual reports or statements) and tax documents sent by the state’s department of taxation. A registered agent also must be available to receive service of process (sometimes called Notice of Litigation), which are legal documents. These are typically a summons and complaint that provide notice that a lawsuit has been filed against the LLC. Other court documents, such as wage garnishment orders and subpoenas, are also served on the registered agent.

While the owner of an LLC can choose to serve as the LLC’s registered agent, there are a number of compelling reasons why business owners choose a registered agent service provider to assist with this important requirement. Among other things, if the registered agent is not available when time-sensitive documents are delivered, or if the person receiving them mishandles them, this can create serious problems for the LLC. The registered agent must also have a physical address in the state and cannot use a PO Box.

Step 4: Prepare your LLC operating agreement
An LLC operating agreement is required in nearly every state. And although most states allow oral agreements, it is highly recommended that every LLC have a written operating agreement. As the name implies it is an agreement among the members and between the LLC and the members as to how the LLC will be operated. Even if there is only one owner (as with a single-member LLC), it is important to have an operating agreement. This shows that you respect the LLC’s separate existence (and can help avoid piercing the veil). It also gives you a chance to put in writing what you want to happen in certain circumstances such as if you can no longer manage the business and allows you to opt out of certain default provisions of the LLC statute that you might not want the LLC to be governed by.

It is particularly important for multi-member LLCs to have a well-drafted operating agreement. This document will clearly spell out the division of ownership, labor and profits, and often heads off disputes among the owners. It should detail, among other things, who has authority to do what, what vote is required to approve certain transactions, how membership interests can be transferred, how new members can be added, how distributions, profits and losses will be split, and more. It is recommended that the operating agreement be reviewed by your attorney to be sure that all the bases are covered.

Step 5: File your LLC’s Articles of Organization with the state
To make your new LLC exist officially, you must file LLC formation documents with the Secretary of State’s office or whichever department handles business filings in the state in which you are forming. This document is commonly referred to as a Certificate of Organization, Certificate of Formation, or Articles of Organization. Filing fees vary across the U.S.

Can an LLC be “incorporated"?

Although it is common to hear of an LLC being “incorporated”, the correct way to describe the creation of an LLC (or any entity type other than a corporation) is to say that the business has been “formed” or “organized”. “Incorporation” and Articles of Incorporationare terms that apply to a corporation (regardless of whether it is taxed as a C corporation or S corporation).

What are LLC Articles of Organization?

While each state’s LLC formation document is different to some extent, there are several common elements. These include the following:

Name, principal location and purpose of the business
Registered agent’s name and physical address
Whether the LLC will be member-managed or manager-managed
Standard forms for the Articles of Organization for an LLC are generally available from each state. The person who formed the LLC must sign the paperwork. In most cases that person does not have to be a member (owner) or manager. In some states, the registered agent’s consent to act as registered agent is also required.

Once approved and filed, the state will issue a certificate or other confirmation document. The certificate serves as legal proof of the LLC’s status and can be used to open a business bank account obtain an EIN, and so on.

Note regarding the LLC publication requirement: Some states may also require that you publish a notice, often in a local newspaper, confirming the formation of the LLC. You may then need to file a certificate of publication with the state.

Step 6: File a beneficial ownership information report
Most LLCs will have to file a beneficial ownership information (BOI) report with FinCEN (U.S. Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network). A BOI report includes information on the individuals who ultimately own or control the business. Newly created LLCs that are not exempt will also have to submit information about the company applicant (the individual who directly files the document that creates or registers the LLC). For more information, visit the FinCEN website and you can file your BOI reports with BizFilings’ filing solution.

Step 7: Obtain EIN, sales tax ID, and licenses
After establishing the business entity, you must apply to the IRS for an employer identification number (EIN). This is the identification number your LLC will use on all its bank accounts, as well as income and employment tax filings.

In addition, you will need to apply to the state's tax department for a sales tax identification number, and you may need to register with the state's labor department in each state the LLC will be doing business. Your business may also need to obtain one or more licenses and permits for each jurisdiction.

Step 8: Open a business bank account
Opening a business bank account step is a key best practice for anyone who has created an LLC and is one of the steps outlined in our guide: 10 steps to starting a business. It is crucial to separate business finances from personal ones. This is one of the main factors that courts consider when deciding whether to pierce an LLC’s veil and hold the member liable for the LLC’s debts. A business credit card can also be used to keep personal and business transactions separate, as well as to help build business credit.

Most banks require company details to open a business account, such as formation date, business type, and owner names and addresses, and EIN.

Step 9: Register to do business in other states (if necessary)
If your LLC will be doing business in more than just the formation state, you will have to register — also known as “foreign qualifying” — in each additional state. (“Foreign” refers to a state or jurisdiction other than your formation state.) Foreign qualification generally requires filing an application for authority with the Secretary of State. A Certificate of Good Standing is often required as well. The LLC will also have to appoint and maintain a registered agent in each additional state.

Many factors are used to determine whether a company is transacting business in a state, and therefore needs to foreign qualify. Some of the common criteria include whether your company -

has a physical presence in the state
has employees in the state
accepts orders in the state
Note that different states have different criteria. To determine whether your LLC needs to foreign qualify in a certain state, it is best to seek the legal advice of an attorney.

Comparing LLCs with other entity types
When forming a business, one of the most important steps is deciding on the business structure. There are several business entity options available that each present different advantages and disadvantages.

LLCs versus C Corps, S Corps, and DBAs
Understand the key benefits of LLCs, C Corporations, S Corporations and DBAs before deciding which entity type is right for you. Read our article Comparing company types: Understanding C Corp, S Corp, LLC and DBA Business Structures.

LLCs versus S Corps
While the S corporation and LLC both have pass-through taxation, the S corporation lacks the flexibility of an LLC in allocating income to the owners. Additionally, an LLC may offer several classes of membership interest while an S corporation may only have one class of stock. Visit our article on LLCs versus S corporations to learn about other key differences.

LLCs versus Partnerships and Sole Proprietorships
Learn about the advantages and disadvantages related to taxation, asset protection and other key criteria faced by LLC owners, sole proprietors and partners, whether general or limited partnerships in our article Sole Proprietorships, partnerships ,and LLCs are commonly used entities.

LLC state guides
When forming an LLC, one of the first steps is to choose your formation state.

Select your state to view detailed information:
Alabama	Kentucky	North Dakota
Alaska	Louisiana	Ohio
Arizona	Maine	Oklahoma
Arkansas	Maryland	Oregon
California	Massachusetts	Pennsylvania
Colorado	Michigan	Rhode Island
Connecticut	Minnesota	South Carolina
Delaware	Mississippi	South Dakota
District of Columbia	Missouri	Tennessee
Florida	Montana	Texas
Georgia	Nebraska	Utah
Hawaii	Nevada	Vermont
Idaho	New Hampshire	Virginia
Illinois	New Jersey	Washington
Indiana	New Mexico	West Virginia
Iowa	New York	Wisconsin
Kansas	North Carolina	Wyoming
The business formation experts
BizFilings

Form an LLC today for as little as $99. Includes 3 months FREE Registered Agent. 

Form an LLC Now
LLC resources
See our list of LLC articles, covering topics from formation state to tax implications.

Key issues in selecting formation state
Selecting a state in which to form your business is a significant decision. Read more about key considerations to evaluate when deciding where to form your business.

Overview of tax implications of LLCs and corporations
There are significant differences in the way LLC s and Corporations are charged state fees,  as well as how they operate under state law and are taxed by federal and state governments. These factors need to be considered when choosing the organizational form for your business.

LLC electing S Corp tax status: An option you may not know you have
If you think you can benefit from the combined features of using an LLC to own and operate your small business and then having it be taxed like an S corporation, evaluate the election of S Corp tax status for your LLC. From double taxation to self-employment tax, this article will identify the key considerations.

LLC FAQs
What LLC forms are required to start a limited liability company?

Articles of Organization, sometimes also called a Certificate of Organization, must be prepared and filed with the state. Filing fees and any applicable initial franchise taxes or other initial fees must also be paid. If your LLC is formed through BizFilings, all you need to do is complete our simple LLC forms and we will do the rest. We will prepare and file your Articles of Organization and LLC forms and pay the initial filing fees on your behalf.

Who can form an LLC?

Typically, there are no residency or legal restrictions as to who can start an LLC. However, a few states impose requirements that members and/or managers must be at least 18 years of age, or the age of consent. For more information regarding the requirements of each state, view the LLC Formation Requirements page of our state guides.

Do I need an attorney to form an LLC?

No, you can prepare and file the Articles of Organization – one of the most important LLC forms needed – yourself. Be sure you understand the requirements of your intended state of incorporation. You can use BizFilings' service to form your LLC, complete your LLC forms and save money on attorney's fees. If you are unsure of what business type is best for you, try our Incorporation Wizard.

What should I name my LLC?

Choosing the name of a new company is an important decision. It is typically advisable to select a name that projects the image you want for your new company. Selecting a name that is easy for customers to remember and spell also has benefits. Legally, the name you select for your LLC must not be "deceptively similar" to any existing company in that state or must be "distinguishable on the record" of your state. It is possible that the name you select will not be available in your state of incorporation — that’s why BizFilings asks for a second choice on our LLC order form. Additionally, most states require that the name you select shows your business is an LLC by including the words "Limited Liability Company" or the abbreviation of "LLC."

How many people are needed to form an LLC?

There is no requirement specifying the maximum number of members (owners) an LLC can have. The IRS does allow one-member LLCs to qualify for pass-through tax treatment. Taxation of the one-member LLCs at the state level may be different.

How is a limited liability company (LLC) taxed?

Typically, LLCs with two or more members (owners) are taxed like partnerships. LLCs with only one owner are taxed as sole proprietorships. While multi-member LLCs must file an informational tax return, single member LLCs do not. In both cases, the profits or losses are “passed-through” the business and reported on the owners’ tax returns. Any tax due is then paid by the owners at the individual tax level.

LLCs can also elect to be taxed like corporations, where the profits of the LLC are taxed at the business level. The state income tax treatment of LLC profits and losses may or may not mirror the IRS tax treatment depending on the state.

LLCs are also subject to any franchise taxes imposed by the state of incorporation. A franchise tax is a tax imposed for the mere privilege of being an LLC formed or registered to transact business (through a process called foreign qualification, learn more about doing business out of state here) in that state. Franchise taxes are typically due annually, and the amounts differ by state. Note: California LLCs are subject to an annual minimum franchise tax of $800 per year.

What is the organizational structure of an LLC?

An LLC is owned by its members (owners). These members are analogous to partners in a partnership or shareholders in a corporation, depending on how the LLC is managed. A member will more closely resemble shareholders if the LLC utilizes managers, because then the members will not participate in management. If the LLC does not utilize managers, then the members will closely resemble partners because they will have a direct say in company decision-making. A member's ownership of an LLC is represented by membership interest, just as partners have interest in a partnership and shareholders have stock in a corporation.

How is an LLC managed?

An LLC may be managed by its members (owners) or by selected managers. If the LLC is to be managed by its members, it operates much like a partnership. Each member has an equal say in the company decision-making process. Alternatively, the members can choose to elect a manager or managers to act in a capacity similar to a corporation's board of directors. These managers oversee the affairs of the LLC.

Member-management is the normal default rule of state law. This means that if managers are not selected in the Articles of Organization LLC forms, the members will direct the affairs of the LLC.

What is an LLC publication requirement?

A few states require notice to be published in a newspaper that an LLC has been formed. States with this requirement for LLCs include Arizona, Nebraska, and New York. The Published Notice of Formation Service can be added to a BizFilings LLC Formation Service order in each of these states. For New York limited liability entities (Limited Liability Company, Limited Partnership, Limited Liability Partnership), the New York Published Notice of Formation Service can also be purchased independently from BizFilings.

In New York, limited liability entities are required to publish notice of their formation or registration in two New York newspapers and to file proof of publication with the Department of State within 120 days. The publication is made at the county level in two newspapers. Failure to comply with the publication requirement by the deadline results in the suspension of a company's authority to do business in the State of New York.

Does my LLC need a registered agent?

It is required that you appoint a registered agentwhen you start an LLC or register to transact business in another state (a process called foreign qualification). BizFilings includes Registered Agent Service with its incorporation and formation service packages.

With our Registered Agent Service, BizFilings satisfies the state's legal requirement to have an individual or company receive important legal and tax documents on behalf of your company. Our service doesn't stop there, however. BizFilings provides a number of advantages at no additional charge to you, such as access to BizComply (our online compliance management tool), electronic Service of Process delivery, online access to your account, and more.

How do I ensure my LLC always has a registered agent?

Our LLC formation service packages include three months of Registered Agent Service. As your registered agent, BizFilings fulfills your state’s legal requirements and provides ongoing compliance assistance for your business. You not only receive our Registered Agent Service for 3 months free with your incorporation package order, but you also avoid interruption of this valuable service with our convenient auto-renewal program. For $220 per year, your Registered Agent Service will automatically be renewed to help ensure your company remains in good standing with the state. You also have the option to renew for multiple years and save over the single year price. You can renew your Registered Agent Service for two years for $370 (save $70) or three years for $489 (save $171).

How do I get started setting up a limited liability company (LLC)?

After you decide to form an LLC, Articles of Organization LLC forms must be filed, and state and initial fees must be paid. BizFilings' LLC Formation Service packages handle these steps for you. After your LLC forms are filed, it is recommended that your LLC hold an organizational meeting of the members/managers. This meeting will help to start an LLC by adopting an operating agreement, issuing membership interest certificates to members, and undertaking other preliminary matters such as authorizing the opening of a bank account for the LLC. View our article on Business Compliance Requirements to learn more.

How soon will I receive my documents when I select the Rush Filing Service?

The 24- or 48-hour filing time is for the LLC formation only. It typically takes longer for the states to produce the filed incorporation documents. Once BizFilings receives your documents from the state, we will ship them to you via FedEx Overnight delivery. This means you should have your documents in hand anywhere from just a few days to one week after your LLC filing. We will also scan them into our Online Status Center, making them available to you before you receive your original documents to help get an LLC started as quickly as possible.

Note: some states require your signature on the incorporation documents when someone other than BizFilings is acting as registered agent. In these cases, the filing timeframe of 24 to 48 hours begins after we have received the signed documents and received any applicable prior approvals or consent.

What is a single-member LLC?

A single-member limited liability company is a "disregarded entity" for federal tax purposes. It still provides protection of personal assets. You report the taxable income and the expenses of the business using Schedule C and carry that information over to your personal Form 1040.

What is an LLC operating agreement?

An LLC operating agreement is a contract that outlines the guidelines and details of an LLC. The operating agreement, which is required to have in place, is written by the LLC members during the first meeting. Our Compliance Kit and Seal service provides template agreements.

What are the benefits of an LLC?

A limited liability company has many benefits, including tax benefits and flexibility advantages. Learn more about LLC advantages and disadvantages above.

What is a Professional LLC (PLLC)?

A professional limited liability company (PLLC) is a limited liability company (LLC) organized to provide professional services in industries that require a state license in order to practice.

How do I get an EIN for my LLC?

Businesses apply for an EIN (Federal Tax ID number) by preparing Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form SS-4 and filing it with the IRS. BizFilings can assist with the obtainment of your company's EIN number from the IRS on your behalf. Simply fill out our Federal Tax ID EIN online order form.

How much does it cost to register as an LLC?

The LLC formation and incorporation filing fees vary by state. Our state fee guides provide the filing fee for each state.

More questions about LLCs?

When it comes to how to start an LLC, there is a lot for small business owners to think - from liability and taxes to LLC business management and more. To help you decide which business structure is best for you, try BizFilings’ Incorporation Wizard Tool.



Starting a business such as a Limited Liability Company (LLC) can be an exciting venture. It requires a great deal of planning, however, before the business comes to fruition.

 

Developing the Initial Business Idea and Performing Research
Typically, starting a business begins with a business idea that targets a specific market. Conducting market research can help a prospective business owner obtain valuable insight into competitors, opportunities, and obstacles.

Understanding the market is necessary to be successful in business. Presenting the wrong product to a specific market or presenting the right product to the wrong market can cause financial losses, aggravation, and even bankruptcy. As a result, taking the time to fully understand the needs of the market and how a prospective business owner can meet those needs is essential.

 

Creating a Business Plan
The next step is to create a business plan, which should address every anticipated opportunity and obstacle within the market. It should include a plan to maximize opportunities and overcome obstacles.

The components of a successful business plan include:

Funding sources
Licensing
Market research
Product details
The management and employee organizational structure
A description of the company’s goals
Scalability plan
Projections of financial growth
Sales and marketing plan
A good business plan should address scalability, which involves a company’s ability to grow to meet increased demand. Often, companies will have a rapid expansion. If the company is not scalable, opportunities can be missed.

 

Choosing a Business Structure
Whether you’re creating a business as a general partnership or as a sole owner, determining the type of business structure that will meet your needs is essential. There are major differences in the ways businesses can be created.

Sole Proprietorship
For a business structure where the owner is the only employee, a sole proprietorship may be appropriate. A sole proprietorship typically requires minimal paperwork to start the business and is relatively inexpensive to start.

In a sole proprietorship, the sole owner retains all of the profit, which is another advantage. A sole proprietorship offers the opportunity for the owner to make decisions without needing to consult with a board of directors or anyone else. Additionally, someone who is self-employed as a sole proprietor may benefit from having self-employment taxes.

However, the disadvantage of a sole proprietorship is liability. The owner's personal assets may be at risk if debts arise and the business can't pay its obligations.

There are also personal liability implications with a sole proprietorship. Personal liability may result from lawsuits related to the business.

S Corporation
Many business structures are set up as a separate entity from the owner. For example, a business could be set up as an S Corporation (also known as an S Corp). An S Corporation passes its business income, losses, deductions, and credits to shareholders for federal tax purposes.

In other words, the Internal Revenue Service permits an S Corp to serve as a pass-through taxation entity, enabling owners to use business losses on their personal tax returns. It is similar to a self-proprietorship in that business expenses can be deducted on the owner's taxes. It can be beneficial for the owner's personal tax return if business losses are realized through the S Corp.

C Corporation
Another option is to register a business as a C Corporation (C Corp). A C Corporation separates the owner's assets from the business assets, and the owner or shareholders are taxed separately from the business.

A C Corp prohibits business losses from being written off on a personal tax return. Advantages of a C Corp include personal liability protection and keeping corporate income tax off the owner's personal taxes.

Protecting personal assets is a matter that should be important to every business owner. While personal assets may be used as operating capital to start a business, there should be protections in place.

Keeping business debts separate from personal assets can be helpful, especially when business debts are managed through a business bank account. Ideally, a business bank account should be separate from the owner's personal assets.

Limited Liability Company
A limited liability company is another popular business entity. It provides some liability protection, has a flexible management structure, and is a pass-through taxation entity.

Limited liability companies may include a single-member LLC or multiple LLC member-owners. Establishing a limited liability company typically involves an LLC operating agreement, legal documents, and other paperwork to get the business started.

When a limited liability company is a multi-member LLC, the role of everyone involved should be clearly established in the LLC operating agreement. An LLC does not have shares like a corporation does, but in a S Corp, different owners have shares assigned to them that determine the amount of the company that each individual owns. When an LLC is set up as a limited liability partnership, the question of how much each person owns within the LLC is determined by a partnership agreement.

Under American corporate law, a foreign LLC may be established. A foreign LLC conducts business in a different state than where it was established. The term may be misleading because a foreign LLC does not refer to a company based in a foreign country.

The process for how to form an LLC may vary by state. Some states, but not all, require that an operating agreement be prepared to establish the business entity.

Since an LLC involves a pass-through taxation, LLC owners pay taxes based on their share of the profits through the operating agreement. Double taxation does not occur because the company itself does not pay taxes as an LLC.

 

Creating the LLC
To form an LLC is not a complicated process. The steps include:

Choosing a business name
Paying a filing fee
Completing documents to ensure limited liability protection
Hiring an attorney
Obtaining a business license
Hiring a registered agent
Choosing a Business Name
Before any LLC paperwork is completed, a business name must be selected. The name becomes part of the brand, and it should be used to write legal documents and to obtain business licenses.

The business name should be creative and appeal to customers. Many times, the business name listed on a business license reflects the company’s products or the services.

Market research can assist with developing a strong business name. Ideally, an effective name should stand out among competitors, be unique, and should not be already in use.

Paying a Filing Fee and Completing Limited Liability Protection Documents
When LLC formation begins, business owners should plan to pay a filing fee and complete paperwork correctly to ensure limited liability protection. By providing limited liability protection, personal exposure to financial risk is based solely on the amount an investor puts into a company.

Liability protection can help when a business owner wants to raise investment money. People may be more willing to invest their funds if they only risk losing the money they invest in the company and not their other assets.

An LLC owner may provide various professional services, but it should be noted that an LLC offers limited liability protection. Unlimited personal liability protection is often at the forefront of the minds of business owners.

Small business owners often form an LLC once they develop their business plan. Since the LLC exists separately from the owners, the owners are typically protected from being held personally responsible for the business's debts and liabilities.

Hiring an Attorney
Since LLC formation can prevent double taxation and has other benefits, working with an attorney to ensure the business is set up correctly can be helpful. Ideally, a business owner should consult an experienced lawyer and obtain recommendations for legal assistance.

Obtaining a Business License
To form an LLC, it is necessary to obtain a business license and pay the business license filing fee. Filing fees typically vary by state.

Establishing an operating agreement among partners is important and there are filing fees associated with establishing the LLC as a legal entity. To form an LLC, business owners will need to obtain an employer identification number (EIN).

Hiring a Registered Agent
Owners also may wish to use a registered agent service. A registered agent is required to be designated by law and can be an employee, attorney, or anyone who can be trusted to manage important correspondence associated with the business.

By using a registered agent service, owners can be assured that government, tax, and legal correspondence on behalf of the LLC is properly handled by the registered agent. In the case of a single-member LLC, owners can serve their own registered agent.

Filing with the state's office that manages corporations will be necessary, and a registered agent can assist with this process.

The registered agent may be in charge of obtaining the EIN, checking to see when franchise taxes and filing fees are paid, and registering the business entity with the IRS. The registered agent may be assigned in the operating agreement.

The operating agreement is part of the process of LLC formation and the company's own registered agent may establish the operating agreement. When preparing LLC documents, business owners often seek legal and tax advice. The registered agent may be tasked with preparing formation documents, establishing a business account at a bank, and taking care of the other paperwork necessary to form an LLC.

The registered agent will need to be able to receive correspondence at the physical address listed for the business entity and must be aware of specific state laws. Receiving correspondence at the physical address of the business is essential because if the business is ever subpoenaed or named in a lawsuit, the registered agent will be the contact person designated to receive the related correspondence.

Good registered agents will be available to immediately process documents when they arrive. Failing to have a reliable registered agent can increase liability and can result in financial consequences.

Reliable registered agents may work with a business attorney when filing LLC paperwork.

 

Articles of Organization
When it is time to start an LLC, LLC formation begins with articles of organization. These articles of organization are part of a formal legal document that establishes the LLC at the state level.

Articles of organization establish the business as a legal entity that can conduct business. They also establish the rights, duties, and responsibilities in a multi-member limited liability company. A filing fee is also required when a business owner files articles of organization.

There are services available to create a limited partnership through an LLC formation and to take care of items such as the creation of articles of organization. For example, LegalZoom® offers services that help someone start a business structure such as an LLC.

 

Financial Considerations
During LLC formation, obtaining an employer identification number is necessary before the business owner files for a business license. An EIN is used for sales tax purposes and is a unique number given to a business for IRS identification and tax purposes. Also, the employer identification number will be needed when opening a business bank account.

When calculating the LLC cost to start the business, business owners will want to consider state filing fees. Determining the impact of sales tax is also necessary.

Once the business is established, obtaining a business credit card is common. Business credit cards can help manager-managed LLC members and others involved in the business keep business expenses separate from personal expenses.

 

Business Ownership Can Be Both Satisfying and Challenging
Business ownership can be very satisfying, as I can personally attest. It can also be challenging at times when business owners must deal with paperwork such as business licenses, difficult customers, government regulations, market changes, and other obstacles. But with proper planning and perseverance, these challenges can be overcome.


Pros and Cons of a Limited Liability Company (LLC)
By Prableen Bajpai Updated March 04, 2025
Reviewed by JeFreda R. Brown
Fact checked by Michael Rosenston
7 Reasons You Haven’t Received Your Tax Refund

Close
The thought of “being your own boss” is sure exciting and if you plan to do it by setting up your business and are ready with a business plan, the next crucial step is deciding the right business structure. This decision has far-reaching repercussions for the business and thus requires careful selection. Factors like personal liability, regulations, tax treatment, etc are governed by the form of your business entity which could be a Sole Proprietorship, Corporation, Partnership, or a Limited Liability Company (LLC).

One easy, efficient, and fast way to start a company is to set up a Limited Liability Company (LLC). Let’s explore what exactly an LLC is, its suitability, advantages, and disadvantages, along with other fundamental factors that can help you decide if an LLC is right for you and your business.

Key Takeaways
The most common forms of business structures are sole proprietorships, corporations, partnerships, and limited liability companies (LLCs).
An LLC is a hybrid structure that combines some features and benefits of a corporation and others of a partnership or sole proprietorship.
Like a corporation, LLCs provide their members with limited liability. And like a partnership or sole proprietorship, LLCs have pass-through taxation so profits are taxed as part of the members’ personal income.
However, LLCs have some drawbacks too. For example, the members of an LLC have to pay self-employed taxes. Also, fees are higher than in sole proprietorships or general partnership
What Is an LLC?
The LLC is a relatively newer form of business entity in the U.S. It was Wyoming that enacted the first formal LLC statute in 1977. The act amalgamated the beneficial features of a partnership and corporations and was based on the German Code and the Panamanian LLC. Initially, the IRS ruled in 1980 that LLCs would be taxed as corporations, which prevented them from gaining popularity. However, in 1988 the IRS changed its rules to allow LLCs to be taxed like a partnership. Over the years since then, all states have passed legislation to permit LLCs.
1

An LLC is a hybrid form of business entity that has selected features of a corporation and a partnership. It has been structured in a way to benefit from the pass-through taxation feature of a partnership along with allowing flexibility in operation and management and yet have limited liability like in the case of a corporation.
2
Small Business Administration. "Choose a Business Structure."



In the U.S., LLC laws are governed by individual states but are recognized in all. The laws further vary across countries. The “owners” of the company, in the case of LLCs, are referred to as “members.” Usually, a single person can start an LLC and there is no upper ceiling on the number of members.
3

There are many established and well-known companies that are structured as LLCs. A few names are FCA US LLC (Chrysler automobiles), Warby Parker, and Patagonia. Some businesses like banks and insurance companies are ineligible to be LLCs.
4

Advantages
Registering your company as an LLC has many benefits. Let's take a look at some of the biggest advantages below.

Limited Liability
This is one of the features of an LLC in which it resembles a corporation. LLC provides its owners a protective shield against business debt and liability.

Let’s take an example, there is a shoe store “boot & boot” owned by Jimmy that loses its customers to one of the more fancy stores around the corner. The business is not doing well and the company hasn’t paid rent for the last eight months and bills for three shipments of shoes. Thus, “boot & boot” owes approximately $75,000 to its creditors who have filed a lawsuit against the company.

In this case, the creditors have full right to claim the money owed from the company but have no right to Jimmy’s personal assets (such as bank deposits, gold, or real estate). In an LLC, only the company’s assets can be liquidated to repay the debt and not the owners. This is a big advantage that is not provided by a sole proprietorship or partnership where owners and the business are legally considered the same adding vulnerability of personal assets.
2

Taxation
The company is not taxed directly by IRS as an LLC is not considered a separate tax entity. Instead, the tax liability is on the members who pay through their personal income tax.
2
 Let’s look at an example.

Say “boot & boot” has two members and has made net profits to the tune of $60,000 in a year. The net profits will be divided into two (number of members) and this amount will be taxed as their personal income depending upon their overall tax liability. Because of non recognition of LLC as a business entity for taxation purposes, the tax return has to be filed as a corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship.

Remember that certain LLCs are automatically classified by IRS as a corporation for tax purposes, so be sure to know if your business falls in this category. Those LLCs that not automatically classified as a corporation can pick the business entity of choice by filing the Form 8832. The same form is used in case the LLC wants to change the classification status.
3
5

Fewer Hassles
Compared to corporations, starting an LLC is easier, with fewer complexities, paperwork, and costs. This form of company comes with a lot of operational ease with less record-keeping and compliance issues. LLCs also provide a lot of freedom in management as there is no requirement to have a board of directors, annual meetings, or maintain strict record books. These features reduce unnecessary hassles and help save a lot of time and effort.

The formation of an LLC broadly requires filing the “articles of organization” which is a document including basic information like business name, address, and members. The filing is done with the Secretary of State for most states and has an associated filing fee.

Another document called the operating agreement is not mandatory in most states, but is recommended especially for multi-member LLCs. It is typically done prior to filing. On registration of the business, other licenses and permits have to be obtained.
6

Additionally, three states, Nebraska, Arizona, and New York, require publishing about the LLC formation in the local newspaper.
7

Flexibility in Allocation
LLC provides a lot of flexibility when it comes to investing as well as profit sharing.

In an LLC, members can opt to invest in a different proportion than their ownership percentage i.e. a person who owns 25% of the LLC, need not contribute money in the same proportion for the initial investment. This can be done by creating an operating agreement, which states percentages of company profits (and losses) for each member regardless of the amounts of their initial investments. So it’s possible to have an outside investor put money in the business without ownership.

The same applies to the distribution of profits where LLC members have the flexibility to decide the allocation of profits. The distribution of profits can be in a different proportion than ownership. A certain member may take a bigger chunk of profits by consensus for the extra hours or effort they have put into carrying out the business.
8

Disadvantages
While a limited liability company (LLC) offers an edge over many other business entities, there are also some drawbacks that need to be looked at before selecting an LLC as the business structure.

Limited Life
The life of an LLC is limited by the tenure of its members. While there can be variations across states, in most of them the business is dissolved or ceases to exist when a member departs an LLC, requiring the other members to complete the remaining business or legal obligations needed to close the business. The rest of the members can choose to set up a new LLC or part ways.
2
 This weakness of an LLC can be overcome by including appropriate provisions in the operating agreement.
8

Self-Employment Taxes
The members of an LLC have to pay the self-employed tax contributions towards Medicare and Social Security as they are considered self-employed. Due to this, the net income of the business is subject to this tax. To avoid this, depending upon the business turnover and tax burden, the entity can choose to be taxed like a corporation if it works out more beneficial.
9
10
 Consult an accountant before making this choice.

Fees
The fee that is typically paid by an LLC as initial costs or ongoing charges is more than that for business entities like sole proprietorships or general partnerships, but less than what a C-corporation has to pay. The various types of fees include applicable state filing fees, ongoing fees, and annual report fees.

What's the Difference Between a Corporation and an LLC?
One main difference between a corporation and an LLC is that a corporation is owned by its shareholders, and an LLC is owned by one or more individuals, referred to as “members.” Corporations must comply with certain formalities such as shareholder meetings, while LLCs provide more flexibility in terms of management. A second major difference is taxation. Corporations pay income taxes on their profits, and then shareholders pay taxes on the income when they receive a portion of the profits. While some LLCs are taxed as corporations, the majority are pass-through entities, meaning the LLC doesn't pay taxes as an entity, and profits are only taxed once as the income of the members.

What's the Difference Between a Partnership and an LLC?
The main difference between a partnership and an LLC is that a partnership doesn't have any separate legal entity from its partners, while an LLC does. This means that an LLC separates the business assets of the company from the personal assets of the members. This provides protection to the members and insulates them from the business's debts and liabilities in the event it fails.

What Are Some Examples of Well-Known LLCs?
Patagonia and Warby Parker are two very famous companies that are structured as LLCs. Chrysler automobiles is an LLC, officially known as FCA US LLC.

The Bottom Line
LLCs are a good combination of protection with flexibility and tax benefits. It provides an array of taxation alternatives while shielding individual members from personal liability. LLCs are seen as apt for small businesses as there is less hassle and complexity in their functioning. However, consulting an accountant or lawyer for expert opinion is advisable before taking the final call.

While forming a company of your own may seem overwhelming, it doesn't have to be that way. With a clear understanding of LLC requirements and the help of incorporate.com in meeting your LLC filing requirements, you can protect your assets while maintaining full control over your business.

Structure
Filing
Financial
Of all Limited Liability Company requirements, the financial requirements can be the most challenging to understand. Again, financial fees and filing are different in each state, although there are times you can file your LLC in a state other than where you live to take advantage of better fee structures. Here are some key financial LLC requirements.

Filing and Maintenance Fees
While getting and filling out the Articles of Organization form is free, there is a fee to file the form with the state to officially recognize your new LLC. Generally, these fees are $50 – 800 at the time of this writing. incorporate.com can help you file your LLC paperwork in any state, and we will help you fully understand the fees involved. Once your LLC is up and running, you will have yearly limited liability requirement fees that you need to pay to the state in which you formed your LLC. It is important to stay compliant with all fees and filing requirements in order to maintain your LLC protection.

Separate Bank Account
While not legally required, a separate bank account setup for your LLC is an important part of maintaining your liability protection. When the company has a separate bank account, it is much easier to prove that you are maintaining a separate legal entity. LLC bank account requirements will vary from bank to bank, but they may need to see your Articles of Organization, business license, Operating Agreement, and Employer Identification Number (EIN). They will need all members who will have signing authority to be present when the account is opened.

Tax Requirements
LLC's will generally need to get an Employer Identification Number, which is available through the IRS free of charge. In addition, while the federal government does not tax LLC profits, certain local areas or states may do so. A tax accountant can help you make sure that you stay up to date with all LLC tax requirements.

The specific forms needed by an LLC vary by state. However, there are some that are common to every state resulting in a basic checklist with requirements for an LLC.

Articles of Organization
The Articles of Organization are the basic statement of your business name, members, and contact information. incorporate.com will complete this form on your behalf using the information that you provide to us. Each state's Secretary of State has their own form that incorporate.com completes. Some states require paper forms and some states accept electronic forms. incorporate.com has a presence in all 50 states and the District of Columbia so that we are able to properly file all state forms on your behalf.

Local Licenses and Registration
Along with being an LLC, your business also needs to be able to operate locally in its daily business activities. This requires you to have all of the necessary business licenses and registrations on file with appropriate local and state agencies. Possible license needs include a general business license, tax registrations, health permits, occupational licenses, reseller licenses, and zoning and land-use permits. incorporate.com can help you get all your paperwork in order with our easy-to-use Business License Compliance Package. Let us help you today!

Yearly LLC Update Forms
While these vary according to the state, most states require a yearly update to be filed from all LLC's detailing any changes in members, address, or contact information. This is part of an LLC's reporting requirements. In addition a yearly maintenance fee is assessed (see LLC Financial Requirements tab). incorporate.com can file these Annual Reports on your behalf through our Annual Report Preparation and File service.

IRS Federal Tax Forms 1065 and 8832
When you file your portion of the LLC profits with your normal federal income taxes (as an LLC allows you to do) you will need a tax form 1065. If you want your LLC to be taxed under a classification other than the default, you will need to file a Form 8832 to change the election. For instance, you may choose to have your LLC taxed as a corporation, if that is more beneficial. A tax accountant can help you understand the details of your LLC taxes.

Less LLC filing requirements result in significantly more freedom with this structure when compared to a corporation. An LLC can be a single-owner business, a partnership, or a multi-member structure. In addition, the members can be individuals, corporations, other LLC's, or foreign entities. There is no limitation on the number of members in an LLC. However, certain elements of structure are requirements for an LLC.

Business Name
Your LLC must have a name that is unique and is not the same or confusingly similar to another business. In addition, the name must contain the term 'LLC' or 'Limited Liability Company'. The use of 'Inc.' or 'Incorporated' in the name of an LLC is generally prohibited. Finally, there are generally prohibitions on the use of financial names, such as 'Bank', 'Insurance', or 'Trust'. Each state has a unique set of name requirements that incorporate.com will follow when filing for an LLC.

Registered Agent
Some states require a registered agent to be a point of contact for all official paperwork. In many cases this registered agent must be a physical resident of the state you are forming in. The agent does not need to be an owner or employee of the LLC. incorporate.com provides registered agent services as part of your LLC formation package.

Operating Agreement
While an Operating Agreement is not part of the LLC filing requirements for the state, it is extremely important. In fact, it's best to have the Agreement worked out before you file any forms with the state. That way, you won't have an upset partner pulling out at the last moment, or be unable to add a new member that you wanted to include. The Operating Agreement spells out a number of very important details, including management structure, investment of additional capital, division of profits, and what happens to the LLC if a member leaves or passes away. This written agreement will be needed by courts, investors, banks, and creditors as you operate your business. While Operating Agreements are not an LLC reporting requirement, they are highly recommended.

Articles of Organization
The first step to the LLC application form is filling out an Articles of Organization form. This is a legal document that is filed with the state in which you are forming. There are many names for this form – Certificate of Organization or Certificate of Formation, for instance. Every state has its own form that must be completed in order to create an LLC. Some states may also have a Limited Liability Company Application to fill out. incorporate.com will use the information that you provide to us to complete the form correctly for the state that you select. We have a presence in all 50 states and the District of Columbia so that we always have the correct forms.

Business Licenses and Permits
Depending on what type of business you are forming, you will need a variety of business licenses to operate in your state. You may need a general business license, tax registrations, health permits, zoning or land-use permits, and state-issued occupational licenses. Getting everything in order can be overwhelming. Fortunately, incorporate.com can make it easy to obtain all of these documents for your business. We can research your Business License requirements and provide you with a detailed report based on the information that you provide us about your business.

Statement of Information Form
As part of LLC formation documents, some states require a Statement of Information form to be filed with the state along with your Articles of Organization. California calls this form LLC-12 or form LLC-12r. This form is a simple statement of your company name, who the partners are, and what the business address is. incorporate.com can also file this form on your behalf when we file a California LLC.

Tax Forms
LLC tax form 1065 is the form that is used to file a tax return on partnership income. This form is filed along with your other income tax documents. Partnerships and LLCs do not pay separate taxes, but pass through all profits and losses to the partners.We can help you get your LLC tax return form 1065 today!

Tax form 1099 is a form that other companies may issue to your LLC if they did business with you and paid you over $600. This form would be part of you and your partners' income tax filing.

An LLC tax extension form, such as Form 7004, is used to file for more time to fill out your LLC taxes. This would give you five months extra for your partnership to finish their tax documents. In a single-member LLC, you wouldn't need to file a LLC tax extension in addition to a personal extension. In a partnership, however, separate forms for a business extension and personal extension are needed. In addition, make sure your partners are filing extensions too – it doesn't work out well when you extend but your partner files!

Tax form 8832 is a form that an LLC would use if your partnership decides to elect a different tax standard. One of the great benefits of an LLC is that your group can choose to be taxed as a corporation, partnership, or disregarded entity.

You can find more information about all of these tax forms on the IRS website. At incorporate.com, we cannot give specific tax or legal advice, but we can help you obtain the forms you need.

Articles of organization

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Appearance hide
Text

Small

Standard

Large
Width

Standard

Wide
Color (beta)

Automatic

Light

Dark
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The articles of organization are a document similar to the articles of incorporation, outlining the initial statements required to form a limited liability company (LLC) in many U.S. states. Some states refer to articles of organization as a certificate of organization or a certificate of formation.[1] Once filed and approved by the Secretary of State, or other company registrar, the articles of organization legally create the LLC as a registered business entity within the state.

For terms of similar meaning in other countries, see Articles of association.

United States
The articles of organization outline the governance of an LLC along with the operating agreement and the corporate statutes in the state where articles of organization are filed.

The articles of organization document typically includes the name of the LLC, the type of legal structure (e.g. limited liability company, professional limited liability company, series LLC), the registered agent, whether the LLC is managed by members or managers, the effective date, the duration (perpetual by default in most states), and the names and signatures of the organizer(s). It is the Articles of Organization that establishes the power, rights, liabilities, duties, and other important obligations of LLC members. This document also establishes the obligations between LLC members.[2]

Most secretaries of state provide fill-in-the-blank PDF templates to file with the state. Some people use the services of an attorney to draft articles of organization. Articles must be drafted to meet the state requirements to form a LLC.

The state fee to file articles of organization to form a traditional LLC range from $40 - $500.[3]

Regardless of what the Articles promulgate, the LLC is bound by the specific state laws that it is formed under. A common misconception is that LLCs formed by improper articles of organization do not have the limitation of liability protection allowed by the state. If the state statute allows for limitation of the members' and managers' liability, the said members and managers are covered under that protection regardless of what articles of organization state.


Register your business
Register your business to make it a distinct legal entity. How and where you need to register depends on your business structure and business location.
Content
Find out if you need to register your business
More than a sign-up sheet
Register with federal agencies
Register with state agencies
Register with local agencies
Stay up to date with registration requirements
Find out if you need to register your business
Your location and business structure determine how you’ll need to register your business. Determine those factors first, and registration becomes very straightforward.

For most small businesses, registering your business is as simple as registering your business name with state and local governments.

In some cases, you don’t need to register at all. If you conduct business as yourself using your legal name, you won’t need to register anywhere. But remember, if you don’t register your business, you could miss out on personal liability protection, legal benefits, and tax benefits.

More than a sign-up sheet
John and Kelly informed the proper authorities that they’re operating a business by registering their auto repair shop.
Register with federal agencies
Beneficial ownership information (BOI) reporting
Many companies in the United States have to report information about their beneficial owners – the individuals who ultimately own or control the company. This report is made to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)(Link is external). FinCEN is a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. BOI reporting is a requirement of the Corporate Transparency Act of 2021.

Companies that are required to comply are called reporting companies. The majority of reporting companies must file their initial, updated or corrected reports by March 21, 2025. For additional information, refer to FinCEN’s BOI notice(Link is external) (PDF).

Beneficial ownership information reporting is not an annual requirement. A report only needs to be submitted once, unless the filer needs to update or correct information. FinCEN’s E-Filing system(Link is external) is simple, secure, and free of charge. Learn more about beneficial ownership information reporting at www.fincen.gov/boi(Link is external).

Other reporting requirements
Other business reporting requirements depend on the nature of your business. Most businesses will need to file to get a federal tax ID. Small businesses sometimes have to register with the federal government for trademark protection or tax-exempt status.


If you want to trademark your business, brand or product name, file with the United States Patent and Trademark office(Link is external) once you’ve formed your business.
If you want tax-exempt status for a nonprofit corporation, register your business as a tax-exempt entity with the IRS(Link is external).
To create an S corp, you’ll need to file form 2553 with the IRS(Link is external).
Business registration documents sent to local, state, and federal agencies.
Register with state agencies
If your business is a limited liability company (LLC), corporation, partnership, or nonprofit corporation, you'll probably need to register with any state where you conduct business activities.

Typically, you’re considered to be conducting business activities in a state when:

Your business has a physical presence in the state
You often have in-person meetings with clients in the state
A significant portion of your company’s revenue comes from the state
Any of your employees work in the state
Some states allow you to register online, and some states make you file paper documents in person or through the mail.

Most states require you to register with the Secretary of State’s office, a Business Bureau, or a Business Agency.

Look up your state
Select your state and hit select to view the results.

State / Territory

Alabama
 
Get a registered agent
If your business is an LLC, corporation, partnership, or nonprofit corporation, you'll need a registered agent in your state before you file.

A registered agent receives official papers and legal documents on behalf of your company. The registered agent must be located in the state where you register.

Many business owners prefer to use a registered agent service rather than take on this role themselves.

File for foreign qualification
If your LLC, corporation, partnership, or nonprofit corporation conducts business activities in more than one state, you might need to form your business in one state and then file for foreign qualification in other states where your business is active.

The state where you form your business will consider your business to be domestic, while every other state will view your business as foreign. Foreign qualification notifies the state that a foreign business is active there.

Foreign qualified businesses typically need to pay taxes and annual report fees in both their state of formation and states where they’re foreign qualified.

To foreign qualify, file a Certificate of Authority with the state. Many states also require a Certificate of Good Standing from your state of formation. Each state charges a filing fee, but the amount varies by state and business structure.

Check with state offices to find out foreign qualification requirements and fees.

File state documents and fees
In most cases, the total cost to register your business will be less than $300, but fees vary depending on your state and business structure.

The information you’ll need typically includes:

Business name
Business location
Ownership, management structure, or directors
Registered agent information
Number and value of shares (if you’re a corporation)
The documents you need — and what goes in them — will vary based on your state and business structure.

Business structure	Document	Description
LLC	Articles of organization	Articles of organization is a simple document that describes the basics of your LLC. It includes business information like the company name, address, member names, and the registered agent.
LLC	LLC operating agreement	An operating agreement describes the structure of your company's financial and functional decisions. It defines how key business decisions are made, as well as each member’s duties, powers, and responsibilities. It's widely recommended to create one to protect yourself and your business, even if your state doesn’t mandate it.
Limited partnership	Certificate of limited partnership	This simple document describes the basics of your limited partnership. It notifies the state of the partnership’s existence and contains basic business information like the company name, address, and partner names. Not all states require it, and some states call it by a different name.
Limited partnership	Limited partnership agreement	A limited partnership agreement is an internally binding document between all partners that defines how business decisions get made, each partner's duties, powers, and responsibilities. It's widely recommended to create one to protect yourself and your business, even if your state doesn’t mandate it.
Limited liability partnership	Certificate of limited liability partnership	This simple document describes the basics of your limited liability partnership. It notifies the state of the partnership’s existence and contains basic business information like the company name, address, and partner names. Not all states require it, and some states call it by a different name.
Limited liability partnership	Limited liability partnership agreement	A limited liability partnership agreement is an internally binding document between all partners that defines how business decisions get made, each partner's duties, powers, and responsibilities. It's widely recommended to create one to protect yourself and your business, even if your state doesn’t mandate it.
Corporation (any kind)	Articles of incorporation	The articles of incorporation — or a certificate of incorporation — is a comprehensive legal document that lays out the basic outline of your business. It's required by every state when you incorporate. The most common information included is the company name, business purpose, number of shares offered, value of shares, directors, and officers.
Corporation (any kind)	Bylaws or resolutions	Bylaws (called resolutions for nonprofits) are the internal governance documents of a corporation. They define how key business decisions are made, as well as officer and shareholders' duties, powers, and responsibilities. It's widely recommended to create one to protect yourself and your business, even if your state doesn’t mandate it.
In addition, some states also require you to register your DBA — a trade name or a fictitious name — if you use one. Check with your state government office(Link is external) to determine what's required in your area.

Register with local agencies
Typically, you don’t need to register with county or city governments to actually form your business.

If your business is an LLC, corporation, partnership, or nonprofit corporation, you might need to file for licenses and permits from the county or city.

Some counties and cities also require you to register your DBA — a trade name or a fictitious name — if you use one.

Local governments determine registration, licensing, and permitting requirements, so visit local government websites to find out what you need to do.


In 2023 alone, American entrepreneurs started a record-breaking 5.5 million small businesses—the lion's share of which were LLCs. This year, experts believe that the upward trajectory will continue, in large part because of how painless it has become to create and register an LLC.

Instead of the overly complex, painfully slow process from decades past, starting an LLC comes down to seven simple steps (and a few extra notes to keep in mind).

Key takeaways
Form an LLC in only seven steps: Select a unique name, appoint your registered agent, determine your LLC’s management structure, create an operating agreement, and file articles of organization.
Set your new LLC up for success: Stay compliant with federal and state law, think about taxes early, and build a strong financial structure.
Compare the benefits of different LLC types: LLCs are popular for several reasons, but which of the eight types is best for you?
The 7 steps of creating an LLC
Limited liability companies, or LLCs, provide business owners with personal liability protection, lower startup costs, and greater flexibility for management and taxes compared to other business structures, making them an attractive choice for many small business owners.

Chief among these benefits, however, is just how quickly and easily one person can start an LLC. In general, filing for an LLC online can be done in an afternoon, and getting approval can take as little as a couple of business days (depending on the state).

Simple as the process may be, however, learning the seven legally required steps of how to start an LLC helps ensure that your new business starts without a hitch.

1. Choose your business name
More often than not, your business' name will be the first thing a prospective customer interacts with—and the first chance you have to hook their interest. A unique, memorable, and evocative name can set you apart from competitors, build a strong foundation for future branding efforts, and set your business up for success overall.

But it's not just about branding—your LLC's name also needs to meet specific legal requirements, many of which vary by state and the nature of your new company. Though we strongly suggest researching the specific requirements of the state in which you'll be doing business, most states require that your business' name must:

Be distinguishable from competitors. As a way of preventing customer confusion and protecting business reputations, all states require a business' name to be adequately distinguishable from the names of pre-existing companies within that state. Consider a business search through your Secretary of State's website to check for similar names.
Include a business-type designator. While the specific list of accepted abbreviations varies from state to state, all states require that official business names include an indication of the business' structure. These business type designators may include "limited liability company," "LLC," or other such variations and are generally placed at the end of your business name.
Avoid restricted terms. Without specific pre-approval, businesses typically aren't allowed to include terms such as "bank" or "insurance" in their names. For companies where such terms would be appropriate, keep in mind that getting approval can be a lengthy process.
Respect existing trademarks. Trademarks are a common way of protecting a company's reputation and intellectual property, so litigation for trademark infringement shouldn't be taken lightly. Before choosing a name for your business, make sure that it doesn't open you up to potential legal troubles from existing companies.
Keep in mind that most states allow you to reserve a name temporarily, even if you aren't yet ready to create your LLC. Simply submit your state's name reservation form and the required filing fee to reserve a name.

2. Designate a registered agent
An LLC's registered agent (also known as a resident agent or statutory agent) must receive legal documents, such as lawsuits and subpoenas, on behalf of your LLC and then deliver them promptly to the appropriate person within your business.

Every state has its own requirements for who can serve as a registered agent, but typically, the registered agent services must be either a state resident over the age of 18 who has a physical address in the state (known as the "registered office''), or a company authorized to provide registered agent services in the state.

In most states, you can act as your own registered agent, designate an employee or other individual as an agent, or hire a registered agent service. This last option may be necessary if:

Your business doesn't have a physical location in the state where it is formed
No one is available at your business location during normal business hours
You run a home-based business and don't want your personal address appearing in public records
Play Video
3. Determine your LLC's management structure
Before you can move on to creating an LLC operating agreement, you'll need to first determine the structure of your new company. Generally, this comes down to choosing between one of two structures:

Member-managed LLCs. With a member-managed LLC, all members (also referred to as owners) actively participate in the business's day-to-day operations and decisions. Although possible for larger companies, this structure is far more common among smaller LLCs with owners who prefer to be more hands-on in managing the business' routine operations.
Manager-managed LLCs. With a manager-managed LLC, owners choose one or more people to operate as managers and handle day-to-day decision-making. Importantly, the chosen managers do not need to be owners or members of the LLC itself. A manager-managed LLC structure is typically better when not all members want to be active or when the LLC is especially large.
Although you technically only need to decide between two options when choosing the structure of your LLC, it's important to give the decision the time and thought it deserves. Choosing the right option for your LLC can streamline daily operations, clarify legal and work responsibilities, and significantly improve your business' chances for success overall.

4. Prepare an LLC operating agreement
A written operating agreement is one of the most important documents for any LLC. In it, you and any partners you may have will outline your LLC's operational and financial guidelines, details about the business' structure, ownership interests, and how profits will be divided.

Even in states where such an agreement isn't legally required, it is strongly advised that you take the time to draft a thorough, fair operating agreement that fully explains to each member what to expect from the LLC going forward. By doing so, you can:

Avoid potential conflicts among members
Provide an additional layer of personal liability protection
Ensure your LLC operates smoothly
Safeguard personal assets
Although it's entirely possible for owners of a single-member LLC to create their own operating agreement using a single-member LLC operating agreement template, it's typically best to consult a qualified business attorney when dealing with multi-member LLCs. While this may add a small amount to your LLC's startup cost, it will likely save you time, money, and conflict in the long run.

A woman in an apron standing in front of her newly opened storefront after she created her LLC with legalzoom
5. File your articles of organization
After you've pinned down a name, registered agent, and thorough operating agreement, it's time to move on to everyone's favorite step: paperwork. Specifically, you'll need to file your LLC's formation paperwork, which may be referred to as "articles of organization," "articles of incorporation," "certificate of information," or "Statement of Information."

Regardless of what they're called in your state, an LLC's articles of organization contain information such as:

The LLC's name
The address of the LLC's main place of business
The duration and purpose of the LLC
Whether the LLC is managed by its members or a manager
The name of the LLC's registered agent
The address of the agent's registered office
The signature of one or more of the LLC's organizers
At this stage, many business owners opt for an online service in order to streamline the LLC formation process and ensure that all documents are correctly submitted. Doing so can add an extra layer of protection to the process, remove confusion, and free up more of your time to handle the other necessary parts of starting a business.

Whether you choose to do the paperwork yourself or with the help of professionals, however, most states allow you to file your LLC's articles of organization online. Filing fees vary by state but usually range from $50 to $200.

Some states process LLC articles of organization instantly, while others take a few days to weeks (with some charging an extra fee for expedited processing). After your LLC paperwork is approved, you'll receive a certificate of formation from the state confirming that your limited liability company officially exists. At this point, you can congratulate yourself as a new business owner, announce the formation of your LLC, and move on to the crucial next steps of running a business.

6. Get an EIN and business bank account
Once your LLC is official, you can apply for an employer identification number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service. The EIN is a nine-digit number that identifies your business for federal tax purposes—similar to an individual's Social Security number.

While single-member LLCs without employees can technically use the member's Social Security number in place of an EIN, many financial institutions ask for an EIN when opening a business bank account. Additionally, using an EIN in place of your Social Security number can help protect your private information, so it may be better even within single-member setups.

For any LLC with more than one member or any employees whatsoever, an EIN is required by federal law for hiring employees, filing taxes, and even applying for business licenses. You can get an employer identification number at no cost on the IRS website. Once you have an EIN, you can set up a business bank account to handle your LLC's income and expenses.

7. Obtain business licenses and permits
Depending on the type of business you have and where it's located, you may need one or more licenses or permits to operate legally. Here's an overview of some of the more common ones:

Seller's permit. If you sell taxable goods or services in a state that charges sales tax, you'll probably need a sales tax license or seller's permit from the state. The permit allows you to collect sales tax and remit it to the state.
General business licenses. A few states require all registered businesses to have a general business or operating license. More commonly, your city or county may require you to have a business license to operate within its boundaries.
Industry-specific licenses. Federal, state, and local governments all have a hand in regulating certain industries and issue everything from liquor licenses to occupancy permits and commercial fishing licenses.
Registration in other states. If your business has a location other than where you formed your LLC, you'll need to register as a foreign LLC in that state.
DBAs. In general, you'll only need to file a DBA if you are doing business under a name other than your legal name. If your LLC only uses its official limited liability company name, then it doesn't need a DBA. DBA requirements vary by location, so you may need to file with your city, county, or state.
Industry trade associations and local and state government offices are great resources for determining the types of licenses and permits your business may need. Alternatively, working with a business advisor can help ensure that you have everything you need to get your business up and running.

What to do after you create your LLC
Soon after your LLC is officially created, there are some time-sensitive tasks that need attention. While these things aren't technically required to create an LLC, many are necessary to legally operate that LLC, such as filing for the correct permits. Others, such as brushing up on LLC-specific tax law, can save you money and hassle when done correctly.

A man who started an LLC with LegalZoom wearing headphones and using music software on a desktop computer.
1. Get LLC-specific tax advice
Tax law is complicated, and it doesn't get any simpler when you start an LLC. Often, properly handling business taxes is one of the biggest challenges a new LLC will face, and improperly handling them can lead to issues such as:

Penalties and interest. When you incorrectly file taxes for your LLC, you run the risk of significant penalties and interest charges from the IRS.
Unclaimed deductibles. For new businesses and established companies alike, tracking every possible deduction can seem nearly impossible. By failing to take advantage of deductions such as home office space, travel, and business-related equipment and software, you're essentially leaving money on the table.
Legal costs. In the most severe cases, incorrect taxes may lead to a business audit or investigation by the IRS, which, in turn, may necessitate hiring legal and accounting professionals.
From a tax standpoint, LLCs are unique because the IRS does not have a specific LLC tax classification. By default, the IRS classifies one-member LLCs as sole proprietorships or “disregarded entities," whereas multi-member LLCs are classified as partnerships. That said, LLCs can choose to ignore the default classification and instead file as either an S corp or C corp, with each having its own benefits:

Filing as a sole proprietorship. Allows for "pass-through taxation," meaning business profits are directly reported on the owner's personal tax returns without being taxed at the business level.
Filing as a partnership. Similar to sole proprietorships, partnerships also allow pass-through taxation, with each member being responsible for taxes on the share of business profits they received.
Filing as an S corporation. These businesses are largely exempt from federal income taxes, but shareholders are subject to individual taxation.
Filing as a C corporation. These businesses are subject to corporate income tax but have access to a larger range of tax planning opportunities and benefits.
When considering tax implications for your LLC, it's essential to consult with a tax professional or accountant to determine the most advantageous tax structure for your specific situation. By understanding the various tax options available to LLCs, you can make informed decisions to help your business thrive.

A woman at a counter hands a bouquet of flowers to a customer. The florist read how to form her LLC in seven steps when she started her business.
2. Maintain compliance and good standing
Once your newly created LLC is up and running, the last thing you need is legal trouble due to non-compliance or overlooked regulations. In order to remain in good standing with state and federal guidelines, make sure to:

File annual reports
Pay any fees associated with your LLC
Stay informed about your state's LLC requirements
Pay any franchise taxes that may apply to LLC owners
By maintaining compliance and good standing, you protect your personal assets, ensure the legal operation of your business, and reinforce your credibility with clients, customers, and partners—all of which ensure your LLC's long-term success.

3. File your LLC in other states
When you first get an LLC in your home state, you establish what’s known as a “state of formation” or “domestic state,” which is essentially your business’ home base. If you intend to expand into other states later on, however, you’ll need to file as a foreign LLC within those states.

In this context, “expansion” refers to having an office space, store, or employees in another state, and failing to properly register your limited liability company can lead to hefty fines and penalties later on.

To file your LLC in another state, follow these steps:

Get a certificate of good standing. Before contacting the state into which you hope to expand, get a certificate of good standing from your home state. This is an official form that says your LLC complies with regulations in its state of formation.
Apply for foreign qualification. Contact the Secretary of State in the new state to complete a foreign qualification application. This application covers your business’s basic information and typically involves paying a fee.
Appoint another registered agent. Just like you did the first time around, you’ll need to choose a registered agent with a physical address in the new state.
Check local laws. Even if your business is compliant with the laws of your home state, it might not be with the new one. Double-check the local laws of any state into which you want to expand.
Prepare annual reports and fees. You’ll need to file annual reports and pay fees for each state in which you register your limited liability company.
The 8 types of LLCs: Choosing the right fit
Depending on your specific needs and circumstances, certain types of LLCs may offer greater benefits than others. Here's a quick breakdown of the eight main types of LLCs.

Domestic LLCs
A domestic LLC is an LLC that operates within the state in which it was initially created. This is, by far, the most common form of LLC, and is generally the simplest to create and maintain.

Foreign LLCs
Contrary to what the name might imply, a foreign LLC does not operate in another country. Instead, an LLC is designated as "foreign" when it does business in a state other than the one in which it was created. For example, if an LLC is formed in Wisconsin but wants to expand and do business in California, it needs to register as a foreign LLC in California.

Professional LLCs
A relatively niche type of LLC, professional LLCs were specifically designed with certain licensed professionals in mind. These PLLCs include people such as doctors, accountants, or lawyers and generally include specific laws about what types of people can be made members.

Restricted LLCs
Although not available in every state, restricted LLCs are a special type of LLC that can provide significant benefits for estate planning. Specifically, restricted LLCs cannot distribute profits to their members for a set period, generally 10 years. Instead, such profits must be reinvested into the LLC itself. In addition to ensuring an LLC’s growth, this also protects members from tax liabilities until the distribution period has elapsed.

A woman seated at a desk with an open laptop pumps her fists after receiving notification her LLC was successfully formed.
Anonymous LLCs
For individuals who want to create an LLC without sacrificing personal privacy, some states allow the formation of anonymous LLCs. Usually, anonymous LLCs designate a "nominee manager" to serve as the LLC's public representation without having any real power or authority over the LLC's operations and funds.

Series LLCs
Also known as "umbrella" LLCs, this type of LLC allows members to create a series of distinct business entities, which each fall under the primary LLC. Each of these business entities generally has its own members, funds, and liabilities, making it a popular type of LLC for those looking to minimize risk across different areas of their business portfolio.

Low-profit LLCs (L3Cs)
An L3C is a relatively rare "hybrid" between a nonprofit and for-profit LLC structure. This type of LLC is usually created for a specific social objective but can also earn profits (within certain limitations). L3Cs are particularly attractive for those looking to obtain private investments for charitable or educational purposes.

Nonprofit LLCs
Though rare, it's possible to form an LLC for non-profit purposes. A key distinction with this type of LLC is that they are allowed to earn a profit, but that profit must be reinvested into the company or otherwise used to further the company's charitable goals. Keep in mind that tax law can get especially complex with non-profits, so consider consulting an expert in non-profit taxation when opting for this type of LLC.

A man seated at a desk reads the screen of his computer while filling out documents to form his new business.
The pros and cons of starting an LLC
Compared to the other various business structures, creating an LLC offers several advantages and drawbacks. Would-be business owners should weigh their own needs and goals when making the decision on what kind of structure to use.

Pros
Limited liability protection: Done correctly, creating an LLC can protect members from being held personally responsible for certain profits or debts.
Tax flexibility: The IRS and federal law grant LLCs impressive flexibility to choose how they're taxed.
Management options: Whereas an LLC can be run by either its owners or designated managers, other business types have much stricter rules and regulations about management structure.
Simplicity: Second only to sole proprietorships (which technically require no form setup), creating an LLC is an extremely simple process.
Cons
Difficulties transferring ownership: Unlike businesses that are owned by a single individual, transferring ownership of a multi-member LLC often requires the agreement of all of its members.
Limited life: Depending on the state in which it was formed, an LLC may need to be dissolved upon the death or bankruptcy of one of its members.
Self-employment taxes: By default, members of an LLC are considered self-employed for the purposes of taxation, meaning they'll need to pay out of pocket for Medicare and Social Security.
State-specific laws: Laws regarding LLC formation and maintenance vary from state to state, leading to potentially more complications than with a more nationally consistent business structure.
Weighing the benefits and drawbacks of forming an LLC is essential for making an informed decision about your business structure. When making the decision for yourself, do your best to predict any potential challenges and opportunities that your new business may encounter.

Creating an LLC with LegalZoom
As simple as seven steps may seem, working with the experts can streamline LLC formation even further. If you choose to create your limited liability company with LegalZoom, for example, the process takes only three steps.

Complete our LLC questionnaire. Fill out your simple questionnaire in only a few minutes. We give you the option to form a new LLC, convert an existing partnership or sole proprietorship into an LLC, and choose what provisions you want to include regarding personal liability protection.
We apply for your LLC. After you’ve given us all of the important information about your new business, our LegalZip® software compiles it into LLC documents that we then file with the Secretary of State in your business’ state of formation. After that, we create and file your articles of organization and an LLC operating agreement tailored to your specifications.
Receive confirmation. Once they’ve been processed and confirmed by your state, we’ll send you your finished articles of organization, any other relevant documents, and step-by-step instructions about what you should do next to ensure your LLC’s success.
Why 2025 is the year to start an LLC
Between the increasing availability of new technologies and tools and the growing advantages of small, agile business ideas, 2025 is shaping up to be one of the best years in recent history for small business owners.

Fortunately, the barrier to entry for entrepreneurs is lower than ever, and starting an LLC takes little more than a good idea, due diligence, and the right support system. If you've been considering starting an LLC of your own, now is the time to reserve a name, get your articles of organization, and get to work.

FAQs
Three women gather around a table where one cuts a sheath of fabric for her newly started LLC
What else should I consider when choosing a business name?
Beyond compliance with state regulations, you should also choose a business name with a similar available domain name, good account name options on social media, and (if you plan to expand) naming availability in other states.

Can I use my personal bank account for my business?
In general, experts advise against mixing business and personal finances. By keeping your accounts separate, you can protect yourself and your business and avoid losing personal liability protections when tax season rolls around (or in the case of lawsuits).

Where should I form my LLC?
In most cases, the simplest and least expensive place to start an LLC is the state where you live. If you form an LLC in another state, you'll also need to register your LLC as a foreign business entity in your state. You'll need a registered agent in both states and be responsible for filing annual reports in both states. Regardless of where you form your LLC, you'll have to pay applicable taxes in the state where you conduct business.

How does LLC liability protection work?
Owners of sole proprietorships and general partnerships have unlimited personal liability for business debts.

Partners in a general partnership can also be liable for their partners' actions. When you create an LLC, you establish a new legal entity that exists separately from its owners—an entity that can have its own money, bank accounts, and assets.

Because the LLC is a separate entity, its members are generally not personally liable for business debts or the actions of other members. They remain liable for their own negligent or intentional conduct and for any obligations for which they've signed a personal guarantee. Business insurance can further minimize liability for you and your business.

Am I considered self-employed if I start an LLC?
You're self-employed if your LLC is classified as a sole proprietorship or partnership. You'll report business income and expenses on your personal tax return (partnerships also file a partnership return). You'll pay income and self-employment (Medicare and Social Security) taxes on your share of business profits.

Estimated taxes should be paid quarterly to avoid fees and penalties.

The default taxation system is simple, especially for single-member LLCs, but some profitable LLCs save on self-employment taxes by electing S corp taxation.

How much does starting an LLC cost?
The amount of money you need to start a new business will vary, depending on the state and type of your business. A business plan will help you estimate your expenses and how much money you'll need to get your business off the ground and keep it running.

There are a few costs related specifically to LLC formation and maintenance. You should have enough money to file formation paperwork, pay for legal and tax advice, hire a registered agent if necessary, and pay annual report filing fees and any annual franchise or operating taxes levied or required by law in your state.

Is starting an LLC worth it?
In most states, LLCs are inexpensive to set up and maintain. Many attorneys recommend that small business owners form an LLC because it provides liability protection at a minimal cost. But some states are more expensive than others. If you aren't sure whether an LLC is worth it, get advice from an attorney and a tax adviser.

What are the benefits of a professional registered agent?
There are several advantages to using a professional registered agent service. Some of these advantages include:

Greater flexibility because you won't need to worry about missing time-sensitive notices
Protection of your privacy because their address is used in public records instead of your own
Access to expert advice and guidance on legal matters
Assistance with compliance and ensuring that you meet all necessary requirements


How To Start An LLC In 7 Steps
Updated: Oct 30, 2024, 7:06pm
Toni Matthews-El
Written ByToni Matthews-El
Former Staff Writer
Cassie Bottorff
Written ByCassie Bottorff
Former Staff Editor
Brette Sember, J.D.
Reviewed
Brette Sember, J.D.
Contributor
Editorial Note: We earn a commission from partner links on Forbes Advisor. Commissions do not affect our editors' opinions or evaluations.
How To Start An LLC In 7 Steps
Getty
Table of Contents
What Is an LLC?
How To Set Up an LLC
Other Important Tasks When Creating an LLC
Why Form an LLC?
Types of LLCs To Consider
How Much Does an LLC Cost?
LLC vs. Other Business Types
More LLC Resources
How Is an LLC Taxed?
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Show more
Setting up a limited liability company (LLC) properly is one of the most important steps in establishing your business. An LLC can offer your business liability protection as well as other perks. In this guide, Forbes Advisor walks you through how to start an LLC in seven steps.

Featured Partners

Advertisement
Pricing
$0 + state fee

Service Time
Varies By State & Package

1

Tailor Brands

Tailor Brands
Learn More
On Tailor Brands' Website

Pricing
$0 + State Fee

Service Time
Varies By State & Package

2

LegalZoom

LegalZoom
Learn More
On LegalZoom's Website

Pricing
$0 + State Fee

Service Time
Varies By State & Package

3

Formations

Formations
Learn More
On Formations' Website

Pricing
$0 + State Fees

Service Time
Varies By State & Package

4

ZenBusiness

ZenBusiness
Learn More
On ZenBusiness' Website

What Is an LLC?
An LLC, is a type of legal entity that U.S. business owners can select for the operation of their enterprise. Creating an LLC protects an individual’s or group’s personal assets in case of legal trouble or bankruptcy. It also allows for flexible taxation options, as not all businesses operate in the same way. Some may elect for taxation as a sole proprietorship, but others may be taxed as a corporation. Consult a tax advisor to determine the best option for your LLC.

Learn more in our full guide to LLCs.

How To Set Up an LLC
Use this seven-step guide to start an LLC today. Note that there are differences in laws and processes from state to state. Browse our state LLC formation guides for information specific to your state.

1. Decide on a Business Name
Marketing may be at the top of your mind as you consider names for your business. And while it’s important to choose the right name for branding purposes, your business name must also meet state law requirements.

In general, state laws won’t allow you to choose a business name that’s already being used by another business in your state. Most states also prohibit certain words that might imply you’re in a certain business, such as insurance or banking. You’ll probably need to include some version of “LLC” or “limited liability company” at the end of your business name.

You can review your state’s LLC naming requirements and find out if the name you want is available by visiting the website of the state agency responsible for business filings (usually the Secretary of State) and doing a name search.

2. Designate a Registered Agent
Every state requires LLCs to have a registered agent. A registered agent is someone who receives official or legal documents (such as subpoenas) on behalf of the LLC. Once received, the registered agent then passes on these documents to the LLC.

Anyone who is at least 18 years old can be a registered agent—and you’re allowed to name yourself or an employee. However, the agent must be available at an address within your state during normal business hours. You can also designate a company that provides registered agent services. This will come at a fee, of course; pricing for registered agents may cost more than a hundred dollars per year.

Should I Be My Own Registered Agent?

You can legally act as your registered agent in every state. However, the availability of this option doesn’t automatically make it suitable for everyone. If you decide to act as your LLC’s registered agent, you should know that your name and address will soon become a matter of public record.

You must receive and handle crucial legal documents or notices as your LLC’s registered agent. If you are not as knowledgeable about local laws and believe you would struggle to manage this type of paperwork, acting as your own agent may not be best, even if the goal is to save money.

Carefully consider your options and perhaps even consult with a lawyer or professional agency before becoming your LLC’s registered agent.

3. Get a Copy of Your State’s LLC Articles of Organization Form
To establish your LLC as a legal entity, you’ll file a document with the state agency that handles business filings in your state. In most states, this document is called the articles of organization, but some states use a different name, such as a certificate of formation. Each state has a form you can use. To find your state’s form, go to the same website you used for business name research.

4. Prepare the LLC Articles of Organization Form
Each state lists its specific requirements and procedures for those trying to form an LLC. Basic information you’ll need to provide includes:

Your business name
The address of your principal place of business
The purpose of the business
The way your LLC will be managed
Contact information for the registered agent (and in some states, the agent’s signature)
The duration of the LLC
Once these steps are complete, one or more business owners or organizers will need to sign the form.

Some states, such as Nebraska and New York, require you to publish a notice in the newspaper indicating your desire to register your LLC. This step must be completed before filing the articles of organization.

5. File the Articles of Organization
Check your articles of organization carefully before submitting them to your state. You’ll also need to pay a filing fee, which varies depending on the state where you’re forming your business.

When your formation documents are approved, you’ll be issued a certificate by the state to indicate your LLC is formally registered. Use it for other necessary tasks such as setting up a business bank account and getting a tax ID number.

6. Create an Operating Agreement
An operating agreement contains the details of the financial, legal and management rights of all members of the LLC. More specifically, it can include how profits will be distributed, how members leave the LLC and who contributes capital for the business. In essence, it should contain all relevant information pertaining to the operations of your LLC.

Many states don’t require an operating agreement, but that doesn’t mean you don’t need to craft one. LLCs with more than one member or partner will want to create one to ensure everyone agrees on their rights and responsibilities. Even solo business owners benefit from outlining the details in writing.

Crafting your own operating agreement is one option, especially for single-member LLCs. And there are plenty of free templates online to get you started. For more complex situations such as LLCs with multiple owners, hiring an experienced attorney may be well worth the expense.

7. Keep Your LLC Active
Setting up your LLC is only the start. Once it’s formed, you’ll need to ensure your business remains in good standing with your state. Again, refer to your state’s business filing website for current information on how to do so. You may need to file an annual report that updates information pertaining to your LLC and pay an annual filing fee.

Other Important Tasks When Creating an LLC
Alongside knowing how to start an LLC, there are a few key details to handle that contribute to the success of the new entity or which may serve as additional requirements for running your business.

Obtain Business Licenses and Permits
In addition to documents for establishing your LLC, you likely need to complete forms and submit fees related to business licenses and permits. This information is likely available from the same office or on the official website as part of the list of business forms and fee schedules.

Confirm the types of licenses and fees your business needs to operate legally within your state. Be mindful of important deadlines, as you will likely have to apply to renew your license or permit periodically. Failing to meet renewal requirements could cause your LLC to lose its status as a legally recognized business.

Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN)
Obtaining an EIN is crucial for anyone seeking to start an LLC. First, it is an important means of separating your business entity and assets from your own finances. Additionally, banks often require an EIN when opening a business account for your LLC. Moreover, for some businesses, an EIN is mandatory. You should get your EIN as soon as you set up your new company.

Divide Business and Personal Assets
As mentioned, specific actions help separate your private assets from those linked to your business. Having an EIN and getting a business bank account are two common ways to begin this process.

One related concern among LLC owners and members is how to pay themselves. Typically, this entails withdrawals from the business account associated with your LLC. Such a withdrawal would have to be labeled an “owner’s draw.” It allows you to treat yourself as an employee paid by the business, avoiding the issues raised by spending company money for private use.

Register Your Business in Other States
You may register your business in as many different states as you want. Additionally, the state where you choose to establish your domestic or in-state entity can be somewhere other than where you live. You can set up your foreign or out-of-state entity if you have a registered agent within that state.

Creating a foreign LLC requires first establishing your business in a different state. If, for example, you originally incorporated your LLC in Delaware but wish to operate in Texas, you need to submit Form 304 or an Application for Registration of a Foreign Limited Liability Company to the Texas Secretary of State. Often, you must also provide a certificate of good standing and additional documentation to clear the way for registering your business in other states.

Check out our guides below for details on creating an LLC in specific states.

LLC State Guides


Advertisement
Start an LLC Online Today With ZenBusiness
Click on the state below to get started.

Washington
Start Now

Why Form an LLC?
LLCs are popular for entrepreneurs and groups seeking to launch a promising new business venture. Some common reasons why people elect to form LLCs include:

Low startup cost: Often, an LLC costs less to establish and run than a corporation. In some states, the fees are less than $100. LLCs are an ideal business structure for those wanting to start a company without needing to spend a lot of money.
Tax-related benefits: LLCs are unique in that they can be treated as pass-through entities and claimed on personal taxes, even as business assets get separated from one’s finances. Many LLC owners prefer this option as it helps avoid the possibility of double taxation. That said, LLCs may be treated as a sole proprietorship, partnership, C-corporation (C-corp) or S-corporation (S-corp) for tax purposes. Learn more about LLC tax benefits.
Liability shielding: As the name implies, running an LLC provides members and owners with some liability protection. For instance, successfully designating the business’s assets protects members’ assets if the company gets sued.
Learning how to start an LLC isn’t too complex. There are even companies available to help you complete the paperwork and even handle yearly obligations on your behalf, such as annual reports.

Types of LLCs To Consider
When determining how to start an LLC, there are several types of LLCs to choose from; knowing the LLC structures available is essential for selecting a business model that most closely aligns with the nature of your company and how you intend for it to operate. These LLC structures include:

Single-member LLC: This LLC is owned and operated by a single person. While similar to a sole proprietorship, this LLC provides additional tax benefits and liability shielding.
Multi-member LLC: Standard LLCs with more than one member, often divided into manager-managed or member-managed entities.
L3C: These entities, also known as “low-profit liability companies,” act as a bridge between nonprofit LLCs and for-profit LLCs where the business cause remains the primary focus rather than earnings.
Series LLC: Series LLCs are tiered business structures where the topmost LLC owns a series of lower-tiered LLCs through limitless segregation. Each LLC in the series operates mostly independently of one another; their assets are also primarily separated.
PLLC: A specialized LLC, this business formation type is only available to certain licensed professionals.
Restricted LLC: Restricted LLCs are not taxed during the first 10 years of formation. Likewise, they cannot make distributions to members. It must be stated in the articles of organization that the LLC will be restricted.
Uncommon: Anonymous LLC
There isn’t a legal designation for this type of entity. Instead, an LLC gets deemed “anonymous” when the state does not publicly identify its owner. Much about business formation is a matter of public record, and there may be a reason someone would want to try to keep as much of their information private as possible. For instance, a single-member LLC owner may operate out of their home but may not want this fact to be a matter of public knowledge.

Most states currently do not allow LLCs to get created anonymously. The option is presently limited to Delaware, Nevada, New Mexico and Wyoming.

How Much Does an LLC Cost?
The cost to form an LLC depends on the state where it is created. You could pay as little as $40 or as much as $500 to file your LLC paperwork. That does not include other associated costs, such as paying to reserve a business name or expediting the process. You may also need to buy business licenses or permits for your LLC.

Moreover, when determining the cost of an LLC, it is vital to consider factors beyond the basic paperwork to form the business. That includes annual obligations such as registered agent fees and annual reports.

LLC vs. Other Business Types
Many entrepreneurs and aspiring business owners choose to form an LLC because it is among the most cost-effective and streamlined ways to get your company off the ground. Yet, several other business types may be worth considering. Each option has its advantages and setbacks but may be worth considering.

Sole Proprietorship
A sole proprietorship is the most simple method of business operation. In this case, an individual engages in business without establishing a formal organization. You may act as a sole proprietor under your name or a pseudonym; if the latter, you would need to submit “doing business as” or DBA paperwork to the state, county and sometimes municipal government.

The owner of a sole proprietorship reports business income and earnings on their personal tax returns. Be prepared to pay a self-employment tax, which as of 2023 is 15.3%. Unlike LLCs, sole proprietors take on all risks and have no liability protection. They also lack the flexibility to choose between operating as a pass-through business entity or as a corporation. A sole proprietorship may be a good starting point for an individual, but they might later consider creating a single-member LLC.

Partnership
A partnership is a business model established when two or more people join together to establish a for-profit company. You may choose to establish three types of partnerships: a general partnership, limited partnership or a limited liability partnership.

In a general partnership, everyone has complete control and equally unlimited liability. This differs from a limited partnership, where one member assumes complete control of the day-to-day operations and others have limited control and liability. With an LLP, all partners have limited liability. As with a partnership, you and your partner or partners may be able to operate under a DBA as long as you complete the necessary paperwork, although some states may require you to register your partnership.

A partnership does not pay income tax, as it is a “pass-through” entity. That means at tax time, each partner reports their share of the profits and losses on their returns.

Corporation
One can form and operate C, S, B, and closed corporations within the United States (depending on the state’s options). While LLCs provide various forms of flexibility, corporation structures are more rigid by comparison.

C-Corps

A C-corp is the most general form of this business model. It is recognized as a separate tax-paying entity. Along with an LLC, there is some limited liability protection.

Corporation owners are known as shareholders, and the level of ownership is reflected in the percentage of company shares each person owns.

S-Corps

S-corp and C-corp businesses primarily differ in how they are taxed. Unlike a standard corporation, an S-corp is treated as a “pass-through” entity exempt from federal income taxes. Instead, S-corp shareholders are taxed individually. With this model, it is possible for shareholders to cancel out profits with losses accumulated elsewhere.

B Corporations (B-corps)

In more recent years, a growing number of companies have chosen to operate as B-corps. B-corp formation means these businesses receive certification through a qualifying third party or state-level recognition of their ability to create social good. Often, this relates to employment, their local community or the environment.

B-corps stand apart from other corporations regarding mission and purpose; the person or group behind these entities prioritizes running them as ethically and transparently as possible. In some states, B-corps must submit annual benefits reports demonstrating their contributions to the public good to maintain their status.

Closed Corporations

Closed corporations lack a traditional corporate structure. Instead of publicly traded shares, the company is run by a private group of shareholders; no board of directors is required.

Nonprofit Organization
A nonprofit organization is an entity that exists for reasons wholly separate from income generation, and no part of the organization’s earnings may be distributed to members, officers or directors. These organizations may be classified in different forms; for example, you may set up a nonprofit corporation or partnership. Some common examples of nonprofits include churches, public schools, political organizations, volunteer services and labor unions.

One of the better-known benefits of operating a nonprofit is tax exemption status, but to maintain this, the organization must adhere to specific requirements. For instance, the IRS notes that such an entity can lose its tax-exempt status by actively taking steps to earn private income or through political lobbying behaviors.

Cooperative
A cooperative, or co-op, is a type of business owned and controlled by the people and uses its services to meet their needs. Cooperatives typically operate in the insurance, credit, healthcare, telephone, electric, housing, transportation, child care and utility industries. Farmers often use cooperatives to both market and process their crops and livestock.

According to the United States Department of Agriculture, as of 2022, more than 30,000 cooperatives currently operate within the country. They are thought to generate more than $650 billion annually.

Cooperatives are not tax-exempt entities; they are subject to real property, sales, employment and personal property taxation and taxes related to unemployment compensation, workers’ compensation, various utility services, etc.

More LLC Resources
We have various articles available for further reading if you are interested in additional information or resources concerning LLC definitions and the formation processes.

Helpful LLC Formation Services

Best LLC Services
Best Registered Agent Services
Managing Your LLC

How To Get an EIN for an LLC
Best State To Form an LLC
How To Add a Member to an LLC
How To Transfer LLC Ownership
How To Change an LLC Address
How To Dissolve an LLC
Advertisement
Start A Limited Liability Company Online Today with ZenBusiness
Click to get started.

Start Now
How Is an LLC Taxed?
How an LLC gets taxed will depend on the state and how the owner elects its tax status. The LLC is claimed on your personal taxes if treated as a pass-through entity. If elected to be taxed as a partnership or corporation, there will likely be additional taxes to be aware of. Fifteen states have franchise taxes that impact LLC owners.

When forming your LLC, you should be sure to determine your tax obligations, as paying taxes is important for keeping your business in good standing.

If you’d like to learn more about which states may be more advantageous to start your LLC, explore our guide to the Best States to Form an LLC.

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Do I need an LLC for my business?
That will entirely depend on your small business and its needs. If you are a freelancer or solopreneur, you may do fine with a simple sole proprietorship.

But an LLC offers a number of advantages, such as protection as an individual from legal and financial problems that your company may face. LLCs also have more choices when it comes to the way they’re taxed. Be sure to do your research and get legal and tax advice before forming any sort of business.

Is it possible to set up an LLC for free?
While the cost to register an LLC varies by state, there is a fee to register in every state. So, while there are some companies that advertise “free” LLC formation, what this means is that the company will fill out the LLC paperwork for you for free. But again, you will still be responsible for the state’s filing fee.

How long does it take to get an LLC?
If filed online, it may be possible to get your LLC formed in two to four business days. Otherwise, LLC papers submitted by mail often take two to several weeks to process.

Do I need a registered agent for an LLC?
While each LLC is required to have a registered agent, it is possible to act as your own agent or appoint an LLC member to the role. Otherwise, you may hire an individual or company to act as your agent.

Can I create a joint account with an LLC?
It is common for multi-member LLCs to open joint bank accounts to which all members have equal access.

How do I file taxes for an LLC?
For LLCs treated as pass-through entities, one would file documents for the business along with personal tax forms. You will need to submit additional paperwork if the LLC is treated as a corporation. For instance, the IRS would require Form 8832 for LLCs taxed as corporations.

What is an LLC operating agreement?
An LLC operating agreement is a document that determines business and financial decisions and key member roles. Some states require operating agreements before approving an LLC’s formation.

Can an LLC own another LLC?
An LLC can own another LLC, and there are multiple ways to make this happen. When filing paperwork, a preexisting LLC may be deemed the owner of the new LLC. Alternatively, an LLC member may sell the entity to someone else. A series LLC is a tiered business structure where the topmost LLC owns the other lower-tiered businesses.

Can an LLC be a nonprofit?
An LLC can be a nonprofit, provided it meets the requirements laid out within the state. Registering an L3C, or “low profit” LLC, may also be possible in some locations.

What's the difference between an LLC and a corporation?
An LLC is owned by members, while shareholders own corporations. Corporations are often subject to additional taxes, while LLCs may be claimed on one’s personal tax documents.

Can I have multiple businesses under one LLC?
It may be possible to have multiple businesses under one LLC if you set up the first entity as a holding company, after which future LLC ventures are held under the first LLC.

Can a trust own an LLC?
Yes, a trust can own an LLC. For instance, the trust can be named as a member in the articles of organization.

Do I need a DBA for my LLC?
Most LLCs do not require a DBA (doing business as). An exception would be foreign LLCs that cannot use their original name within a state, as another company has already registered it. In that case, the company would need a DBA to operate.

Do I need a physical address for my LLC?
An LLC isn’t legally required to have a physical address except for its registered agent, who accepts important documents such as tax papers or legal notices on behalf of the business.


What is an LLC?
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a business entity that combines characteristics of both corporations and partnerships. Specifically, an LLC has the same limited liability protections afforded to corporations and, by default, the LLC is taxed as a partnership.

When someone forms an LLC, they are essentially creating an entity separate from themselves. Should this separate entity (the LLC) be sued, it is the entity, not the individual who created the entity, that is being sued (this is what it means to have limited liability). The advantage to limited liability is that, with few exceptions, should the LLC be sued, the LLC’s assets are at stake, not the individual’s.

A corporation, by default, is first taxed on its net income, then taxed again at a personal level when that net income is distributed to an owner. An LLC, like a partnership, is not taxed. The profits of an LLC are passed to the owners (called members) and taxed as personal income. This is referred to as pass-through taxation and only changes if the LLC elects to be taxed as an S-corporation or C-corporation. Limited liability and pass-through taxation are the two main defining characteristics of the LLC.

How to Start an LLC in Any State
An LLC is formed at the state level by filing a single form called the Articles of Organization, called the Certificate of Formation or Certificate of Organization in some states. The Articles of Organization are filed with the state agency in charge of business formations, usually that state’s Secretary of State.

No matter what your state calls the LLC creation form or the agency you file with, starting an LLC is a simple process. Here’s how it works.

LLC Name
1. Name your LLC
Before you can form an LLC, you’ll need to decide on your company name—and make sure it’s not already taken. Fortunately, every state has an online database where you can search for available names. When choosing a name, you’ll also need to avoid restricted words or phrases and include a business entity identifier, such as “L.L.C.,” “LLC,” or “Limited Liability Company.”

Check if your company name is available with a Free Business Name Search.

Registered Agent
2. Designate a Registered Agent
In order for a state to grant you the privilege to form and establish a business (and begin the process of separating your personal identity with your LLC’s separate and distinct identity), the state wants to be sure that your business can be contacted by anyone regarding importance communications, such as legal notices or service of process. To do that, you will need to identify and list your registered agent and office in your formation paperwork. Because of the time sensitive nature of several communications delivered to a registered agent, it is important that you select a registered agent whom you can trust to get you vital communications in a prompt and timely manner.

Your registered agent must be regularly available to accept your LLC’s state and legal mail at a physical location in the state (a registered office). This means that if you opt to be your own registered agent, your name and home or office address will become part of your LLC’s permanent public record. Hiring a registered agent service can help you keep your personal information more private.

Find everything you need to know about Registered Agent Service for your LLC.

Articles of Organization
3. Submit LLC Articles of Organization
Now that you’ve made the big decisions, it’s time to file the LLC state form, typically called “Articles of Organization.” In most states, LLC formation documents are processed by the Secretary of State. Requirements vary, but at minimum, you’ll generally need to include your company name, your registered agent, and a signature.

If you’re looking to form your LLC yourself, we have pages on forming an LLC in every state that include that state’s Articles of Organization and free tools for filling out, downloading, and printing the articles you’ll need to file.

Simply skip down to our State LLC Requirements search and select your state.

EIN Tax ID
4. Get an EIN
After starting an LLC, you’ll likely need a federal tax ID from the IRS. This Federal Employer Identification Number (known as a FEIN or EIN) is much like a social security number for your LLC. Every LLC that will pay taxes or hire employees needs an EIN. Also, an EIN is another indicator courts will look to when determining whether a distinct LLC identity exists separately from yourself.

Apply for an EIN with the IRS by filing Form SS-4. Applying online on the IRS website typically takes just a few minutes.

Everything you need to know about getting an EIN.

LLC Operating Agreement
5. Write an LLC Operating Agreement
Your operating agreement is the governing document of your LLC. How the LLC distributes its profits and losses, who owns what percentage of the company, how management structure is defined, everything—it’s all in the operating agreement. Your operating agreement is an internal document, so you don’t need to file it with any state agency. However, it’s not something you want to be operating an LLC without.

Whether you’re operating as a single-member LLC, multi-member LLC, or manager-managed LLC, we have free templates and tools you need for creating and downloading your LLC operating agreement:

Single-Member LLC Operating Agreement
Multi-Member LLC Operating Agreement
Manager-Managed LLC Operating Agreement
 


6. Open a Bank Account
To maintain your new LLC’s limited liability, you’ll need to keep your personal assets separate from business assets—so you’ll want to open a business bank account. Again, this is another factor courts will look at to determine whether to respect your LLC’s separate identity, or whether to disregard and allow liability to attach to you (and your assets) personally. The more you can show a separation between yourself and your LLC, the better!

Opening an account typically requires a few key business documents: your Articles of Organization, operating agreement and EIN. Depending on the bank—and how clearly powers are defined in your articles and agreement—you may also need an LLC resolution to open a bank account.

Make sure you have everything you need. We offer a free LLC resolution to open an LLC Bank Account.


7. Fund the LLC
Your business bank account doesn’t do much good empty—your new LLC needs to be funded with capital contributions. Let’s say your business needs $10,000 to start. Each member would pony up a portion of that $10K from their personal money or assets to put into the new business account. In exchange, members receive a proportionate percentage of membership interest. You can change the percentages at any time if people want to contribute more later on.

Need to document all this money changing hands? We offer free LLC Forms, including capital contribution agreements and membership certificates.


8. File State Reports & Taxes
After you form an LLC, your state may require you to update or confirm your company information with a business renewal or report, such as an annual or biennial report. Occasionally, these renewals or reports are combined with other state requirements. For instance, Arkansas pairs its annual report with an annual franchise tax. Some states, like Washington and Nevada also require LLCs to file an initial report. This is a report due upon or shortly after starting your business. And of course, states have their own LLC tax requirements, from informational filings to franchise taxes.

Learn about Business Renewals & Reports.

Why Have a Registered Agent Form Your LLC?
Professionals hire registered agent services like Northwest Registered Agent to form their LLCs — but why?

Logistics
Pros want their LLCs formed fast and they don’t want to pay extra for speed and competence. As a registered agent, we have offices in every state. It’s our job to know the fastest filing methods in every state. We’re on a first name basis with many of the people who work in every state’s Corporation Division. When you hire us to form your LLC, you inherently leverage our operational logistics for fast, professional service.

Privacy
As your registered agent, our registered office is listed on your LLC’s formation documents. We never sell your data. We don’t list your personal information on filings if we don’t have to. It’s all part of our commitment to Privacy by Default® and achieving a level of privacy you can’t get when you file yourself or hire a standard filing service.

Free Mail Forwarding & Business Address
As part of our standard service, we include limited digital mail forwarding in every state. Plus, you can list our address as your business address. Combining business address and mail forwarding ensures an increased level of security and service unmatched in the LLC formation industry.

Local Expertise
Knowing the ins and outs of every state doesn’t just help us provide faster, better service—it also helps you. We’re invested in a national team of Corporate Guides®, more than 200 local business experts you can call or email to answer questions about your LLC.

More than an LLC
Starting a business goes beyond filing paperwork with the state. If you’re serious about reaching clients and customers, you need a domain name, a website, a business phone number, business email addresses, and SSL Security. You can piece those services together with different companies, or you can hand it off to us. At Northwest, we’ll stand up your entire Business Identity instantly.


A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a business structure allowed by state statute. Each state may use different regulations, you should check with your state if you are interested in starting a Limited Liability Company.

Owners of an LLC are called members. Most states do not restrict ownership, so members may include individuals, corporations, other LLCs and foreign entities. There is no maximum number of members. Most states also permit “single-member” LLCs, those having only one owner.

A few types of businesses generally cannot be LLCs, such as banks and insurance companies. Check your state’s requirements and the federal tax regulations for further information. There are special rules for foreign LLCs.

Classifications
Depending on elections made by the LLC and the number of members, the IRS will treat an LLC as either a corporation, partnership, or as part of the LLC’s owner’s tax return (a “disregarded entity”). Specifically, a domestic LLC with at least two members is classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes unless it files Form 8832 and affirmatively elects to be treated as a corporation. For income tax purposes, an LLC with only one member is treated as an entity disregarded as separate from its owner, unless it files Form 8832 and elects to be treated as a corporation. However, for purposes of employment tax and certain excise taxes, an LLC with only one member is still considered a separate entity.

Effective date of election
An LLC that does not want to accept its default federal tax classification, or that wishes to change its classification, uses Form 8832, Entity Classification Election PDF, to elect how it will be classified for federal tax purposes. Generally, an election specifying an LLC’s classification cannot take effect more than 75 days prior to the date the election is filed, nor can it take effect later than 12 months after the date the election is filed. An LLC may be eligible for late election relief in certain circumstances. See About Form 8832, Entity Classification Election for more information.


