taxes that impact LLC owners. When forming your LLC, you should be sure to determine your tax obligations, as paying taxes is important for keeping your business in good standing. If you’d like to learn more about which states may be more advantageous to start your LLC, explore our guide to the Best States to Form an LLC. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Do I need an LLC for my business? That will entirely depend on your small business and its needs. If you are a freelancer or solopreneur, you may do fine with a simple sole proprietorship. But an LLC offers a number of advantages, such as protection as an individual from legal and financial problems that your company may face. LLCs also have more choices when it comes to the way they’re taxed. Be sure to do your research and get legal and tax advice before forming any sort of business. Is it possible to set up an LLC for free? While the cost to register an LLC varies by state, there is a fee to register in every state. So, while there are some companies that advertise “free” LLC formation, what this means is that the company will fill out the LLC paperwork for you for free. But again, you will still be responsible for the state’s filing fee. How long does it take to get an LLC? If filed online, it may be possible to get your LLC formed in two to four business days. Otherwise, LLC papers submitted by mail often take two to several weeks to process. Do I need a registered agent for an LLC? While each LLC is required to have a registered agent, it is possible to act as your own agent or appoint an LLC member to the role. Otherwise, you may hire an individual or company to act as your agent. Can I create a joint account with an LLC? It is common for multi-member LLCs to open joint bank accounts to which all members have equal access. How do I file taxes for an LLC? For LLCs treated as pass-through entities, one would file documents for the business along with personal tax forms. You will need to submit additional paperwork if the LLC is treated as a corporation. For