publicly traded shares, the company is run by a private group of shareholders; no board of directors is required. Nonprofit Organization A nonprofit organization is an entity that exists for reasons wholly separate from income generation, and no part of the organization’s earnings may be distributed to members, officers or directors. These organizations may be classified in different forms; for example, you may set up a nonprofit corporation or partnership. Some common examples of nonprofits include churches, public schools, political organizations, volunteer services and labor unions. One of the better-known benefits of operating a nonprofit is tax exemption status, but to maintain this, the organization must adhere to specific requirements. For instance, the IRS notes that such an entity can lose its tax-exempt status by actively taking steps to earn private income or through political lobbying behaviors. Cooperative A cooperative, or co-op, is a type of business owned and controlled by the people and uses its services to meet their needs. Cooperatives typically operate in the insurance, credit, healthcare, telephone, electric, housing, transportation, child care and utility industries. Farmers often use cooperatives to both market and process their crops and livestock. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, as of 2022, more than 30,000 cooperatives currently operate within the country. They are thought to generate more than $650 billion annually. Cooperatives are not tax-exempt entities; they are subject to real property, sales, employment and personal property taxation and taxes related to unemployment compensation, workers’ compensation, various utility services, etc. How Is an LLC Taxed? How an LLC gets taxed will depend on the state and how the owner elects its tax status. The LLC is claimed on your personal taxes if treated as a pass-through entity. If elected to be taxed as a partnership or corporation, there will likely be additional taxes to be aware of. Fifteen states have franchise