to operate. These LLC structures include: Single-member LLC: This LLC is owned and operated by a single person. While similar to a sole proprietorship, this LLC provides additional tax benefits and liability shielding. Multi-member LLC: Standard LLCs with more than one member, often divided into manager-managed or member-managed entities. L3C: These entities, also known as “low-profit liability companies,” act as a bridge between nonprofit LLCs and for-profit LLCs where the business cause remains the primary focus rather than earnings. Series LLC: Series LLCs are tiered business structures where the topmost LLC owns a series of lower-tiered LLCs through limitless segregation. Each LLC in the series operates mostly independently of one another; their assets are also primarily separated. PLLC: A specialized LLC, this business formation type is only available to certain licensed professionals. Restricted LLC: Restricted LLCs are not taxed during the first 10 years of formation. Likewise, they cannot make distributions to members. It must be stated in the articles of organization that the LLC will be restricted. Uncommon: Anonymous LLC There isn’t a legal designation for this type of entity. Instead, an LLC gets deemed “anonymous” when the state does not publicly identify its owner. Much about business formation is a matter of public record, and there may be a reason someone would want to try to keep as much of their information private as possible. For instance, a single-member LLC owner may operate out of their home but may not want this fact to be a matter of public knowledge. Most states currently do not allow LLCs to get created anonymously. The option is presently limited to Delaware, Nevada, New Mexico and Wyoming. How Much Does an LLC Cost? The cost to form an LLC depends on the state where it is created. You could pay as little as $40 or as much as $500 to file your LLC paperwork. That does not include other associated costs, such as paying to reserve a business name or expediting the process. You may also