with a partnership, you and your partner or partners may be able to operate under a DBA as long as you complete the necessary paperwork, although some states may require you to register your partnership. A partnership does not pay income tax, as it is a “pass-through” entity. That means at tax time, each partner reports their share of the profits and losses on their returns. Corporation One can form and operate C, S, B, and closed corporations within the United States (depending on the state’s options). While LLCs provide various forms of flexibility, corporation structures are more rigid by comparison. C-Corps A C-corp is the most general form of this business model. It is recognized as a separate tax-paying entity. Along with an LLC, there is some limited liability protection. Corporation owners are known as shareholders, and the level of ownership is reflected in the percentage of company shares each person owns. S-Corps S-corp and C-corp businesses primarily differ in how they are taxed. Unlike a standard corporation, an S-corp is treated as a “pass-through” entity exempt from federal income taxes. Instead, S-corp shareholders are taxed individually. With this model, it is possible for shareholders to cancel out profits with losses accumulated elsewhere. B Corporations (B-corps) In more recent years, a growing number of companies have chosen to operate as B-corps. B-corp formation means these businesses receive certification through a qualifying third party or state-level recognition of their ability to create social good. Often, this relates to employment, their local community or the environment. B-corps stand apart from other corporations regarding mission and purpose; the person or group behind these entities prioritizes running them as ethically and transparently as possible. In some states, B-corps must submit annual benefits reports demonstrating their contributions to the public good to maintain their status. Closed Corporations Closed corporations lack a traditional corporate structure. Instead of