within that state. Creating a foreign LLC requires first establishing your business in a different state. If, for example, you originally incorporated your LLC in Delaware but wish to operate in Texas, you need to submit Form 304 or an Application for Registration of a Foreign Limited Liability Company to the Texas Secretary of State. Often, you must also provide a certificate of good standing and additional documentation to clear the way for registering your business in other states. Why Form an LLC? LLCs are popular for entrepreneurs and groups seeking to launch a promising new business venture. Some common reasons why people elect to form LLCs include: Low startup cost: Often, an LLC costs less to establish and run than a corporation. In some states, the fees are less than $100. LLCs are an ideal business structure for those wanting to start a company without needing to spend a lot of money. Tax-related benefits: LLCs are unique in that they can be treated as pass-through entities and claimed on personal taxes, even as business assets get separated from one’s finances. Many LLC owners prefer this option as it helps avoid the possibility of double taxation. That said, LLCs may be treated as a sole proprietorship, partnership, C-corporation (C-corp) or S-corporation (S-corp) for tax purposes. Learn more about LLC tax benefits. Liability shielding: As the name implies, running an LLC provides members and owners with some liability protection. For instance, successfully designating the business’s assets protects members’ assets if the company gets sued. Learning how to start an LLC isn’t too complex. There are even companies available to help you complete the paperwork and even handle yearly obligations on your behalf, such as annual reports. Types of LLCs To Consider When determining how to start an LLC, there are several types of LLCs to choose from; knowing the LLC structures available is essential for selecting a business model that most closely aligns with the nature of your company and how you intend for it